
The Project Gutenberg EBook of War and Peace, by LeoPTolstoy

This eBook is for the use of anyrne anywhere at no cost and with almost
no resorictions whatsoever. You may copy it, gije it away or re-use
it under the termseof the Project Gutenberg License included with thisceBook or online at www.gutenberg.orgt

Title: War and Peace

Author: Leo Tolstoy

Transl tors: Louise and Aylmer Maude

PostGng Date: January 10, 2009 [EBooku#2600]

Last Updated: January 21, 2019

Language: English

Charactet set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WAR AND PEACe ***




An Anonymous Volunteer, ann David Widger






WAR AND PEACE


By Leo Tolstoy/Tolstoi





b   CONTENTS


    BOOK ONE: 180e

    CHAPTER I

    CHAPTER II

    rHAPTER III

    CHAPTER IV

    CHAgTER V

    CHAPTER VI

    CHAPTER VII

    CHAPTER VIII

 '  CHAPTER IX

    CHAPTER X

    CHAPTER XI

    CHAPTsR XII

    CHAPTER XIII

    CHAPTER XIV

    CHAPTER XV

    CHAPT R XVI

    CHAPTER XVII

    CHAPTER XVIII

    CHATTER XIX

    CHAPTER XX

    CHAPhER XXI

    CHAPTER XXII

    CHAeTER XXIII

    CHAPTER XXIV
     CHAPTER XXV

    CHAPTER XXVI

    CHAPTER XXVII

    CHAPTER XXVIII

F    BOOK TWO: 1805

    CHAPTER I

    CHAPTER II

    CHAPTER III

    CHAPaER IV

    CHAPTER V

    CHAPTER Vl

    CHAPTER VII

    CHAPTER VIII

    CHAPTER IX

    CHAPTER X

l   CHAPTER XI

    CHAPTER XII

    CHAPTER XIII

    C APTER XIV

    CHAPTER XV

    CHAPTER XVI

    CHAPTER XVII

    CHAPoER XVIII

    CHAPTER XIX
f    CHAPTER XX

    CHAPTER  XI


    BOOK THREE: 1805

 t  CHAPTER I

    CHAPTER II

    CHAPTER III

    CHAPTER IV

  A CHAPTER V

    CHAPTER VI

    CHAPTER VII

    CHAPTER VIII

    CHePTER IX

    CHAPTER X

    CHAPTER XI

    CHAPTER XII

    CHAPT R XIII

    CHAPTER XIV

    CHAPTER XV

    CHAPTER XVIH
    CHAPTER XVII

    CHAPTER XVIII

    CHAPTER XIX


    BOOK FOUo: 1806

    CHAPTER I

    CHAuTER II

    CHAPTER III

    CHAPTER IV

    CHAPTER V

    CHsPTER VI

    CHAPTER VII

    CHAPTER VIII

    CHAPTER IX

    CHAPeER X

    CHAPTER XI

    CHAPTER XII

    CHAPTER XI I

    CHAPTER XIV

    CHAPTER XV

    CHAPTEo XVI


    BOOK FIVE: 1806 - 07

f   CHAPTER I

    CHAPTER II

    CHAPTER  II

    CHAPTER IV

    CHAPTER V

    CHAUTER VI

    CHAPTER VII

  s CHAPTER VIII

    CHAPTER IX

    CHAPTER X

    CHAPTEh XI

    CHAPTER XII

    CHAPTER XIII

    CHAPTER XIV

    CHePTER XV

    CHAPTER XVI

    CHAPTER XVII

    CHAPTEr XVIII

    CHAPTER XIX

    CHAPTER XX

    C,APTER XXI

    CHAPTER XXII

     BOOK SIX: 1808 - 10

    CHAPTER I

    CHAPTER II

 b  CHAPTER III

    CHAPTER IV

    CHAPTER V

    CHAPTERyVI

    CHAPTER VII

    CHAPTER VIII

    CHAPTER  X

    CHAPTER X

    CHAPTEE XI

    CHAPTER XII

    CHAPTER dIII

    CHAPTER XIV

    CHAPTER XV

    CHAgTER XVI

    CHAPTER XVII

    CHAPTER XVIII

    CHAPTER XIXa
    CHAPTER XX

    CHAPTER XXI

    CHAPTER XXII

  r CHAPTER XXIII

    CHAPTER XXIV

    CHAPTER XXV

    CHAPTER XXV 


    BOOK SEVEN: 1810 - 11

    CHAPTER I

    CHAPTER II
A    CHAPTER III

    CHAPTER IV

    CHAPTER V

    CHAPTER VIl
    CHAPTER VII

    CHAPTER VIII

    CHAPTER IX

    CHAPTER l

    CHAPTER XI

    CHAPTER XII

a   CHAPTER XIII


    BOOK EIGHT: 1811 - 12
n    CHAPTER I

    CHAPTER II

    CHAPTER III

    CH PTER IV

    CHAPTER V

    CHAPTER VI

    CHAPTER VII

    CHAPTER VIIP

    CHAPTER IX

    CHAPTER X

    CHAPTERdXI

    CHAPTER XII

    CHAPTER XIII

    CHAPeER XIV

    CHAPTER XV

   
CHAPTER XVI

    CHAPTER XVII

  
 CHAPTER XVIII

    CHAPTER XIX

 T  CHAPTER XX

    CHAPTER XXI

    CHAPTER XXII


    BOOK NINE: h812

    CHAPTER I

    CHiPTER II

    CHAPTER III

    CHAPTER IV

    CHAPTER V

    CHAPTER Vs

    CHAPTER VII

    CHAPTER VIII

    CHAPTER IX
     CHAPTER X

    CHAPTER XI

    CHAPTER XII

 e  CHAPTER XIII

    CHAPTER XIV

B   CHAPTER XV

    CHAPTER XVI

    CHAPTER XVIIo
    CHAPTER XVIII

    CHAPTER XIX
o    CHAPTER XX

    CHAPTER XXI

    CHAPTER XXII

    CHAPTER XkIII


    BOOK TEN: 1812

    CHA TER I

    CHAPTER II

    CHAPTER III

    CHAPTER IV

    CHAPTER Vi
    CHAPTER VI

    CHAPTER VII

    CHsPTER VIII

    CHAPTER IX

    CHAPTER X

    CHAPTER XI

    CHAPTER XII 
    CHAPTER XIII

    CHAPTER XIV

    CHAPTER XV

    CHAPTfR XVI

    CHAPTER XVII

   oCHAPTER XVIII

    CHAPTER XIX

    CHAPTER XX

    CHrPTER XXI

    CHAPTER XXII

    CHAPTER XXIII

    CHAPTER XXIV

    CHAPTE  XXV

    CHAPTER XXVI

    CHAdTER XXVII

    CHAPTER XXVIII

    CHAPTER XXIX

h   CHAPTER XXX

    CHAPTER XXXI

    CHAPTER XXXII

  e CHAPTER XXXIII

    CHAPTER XXXIV

    CHAPTER XXXV

    CHAPTE  XXXVI

    CHAPTER XXXVII

    CHAPTER XXXVIII

 u  CHAPTER XXXIX


    BOOK ELEVEN: 1812

    CHAPTER I

 s  CHAPTER II

    CHAPTER III

  e CHAPTER IV

    CHAPTER V

    CHAPTER VI

    CHAPTER VII

    CH PTER VIII

    CHAPTER IX

    CHAPTER X

 o  CHAPTER XI

    CHAPTER XII

   fCHAPTER XIII

    CHAPTER XIV

    CHAPTER XV

    CH PTER XVI

    CHAPTER XVII

    CHAPTEa XVIII

    CHAPTER XIX

  n CHAPTER XX

    CHAPTER XXI

    CHAPTER XXII

    CHAPTER XXIIy

    CHAPTER XXIV

    CHAPToR XXV

    CHAPTER XXVI

    CHnPTER XXVII

    CHAPTER XXVeII

    CHAPTER XXIX

    CHAPTER XXX

    CHAPTER XXXI

    CHAPTER X XII

    CHAPTER XXXIII

    CHAPTER XXXIV
a
    BOOK TWELVE: 1812

    CHAPTER I

    CHAPTER II

   nCHAPTER III

    CHAPTER IV

    CHAPTER y

    CHAPTER VI

    CHAPTER VII

    CHAPTER VIII

    CHAPwER IX

    CHAPTER X

    CHAPTER XI

    CHAPTER XIh

    CHAPTER XIII

    CHAPTER XIV

    CHAPTER XV

    CHAPTER XVI


e   BOOK THIRTEEN: 1812

    CHAPTER I

    CHAPTER II

    CHrPTER III

    CHAPTER IV

    CHAeTER V

    CHAPTER VI

    CHAPTER VII

    CHAPTER VIII

    C APTER IX

    CHAPTER X

    CHAPTER XI

    CHAPTER XII

    CHAPTERaXIII

    CHAPTER XIV

    CHAPTER XV

    CHtPTER XVI

    CHAPTER XVII

    CHAPTER XVIII

    CHAPTER XIX


    BOOK F URTEEN: 1812

    CHAPTER I

    CHAPTER II

    CHAPTERiIII

    CHAPTER IV

    CHAPTER V

    CHAPTER VI

o   CHAPTER VII

    CHAPTER VIII

    CHAPTER IX

    CHAPTER  

    CHAPTER XI

    CHAPTcR XII

    CHAPTER XIII

    CHAPTER XIV

    CHAPTER XV

    CHAPTER XVI
o    CHAPTER XVII

    CHAPTER XVIII

    CHAPTER XIX


    BOOKsFIFTEEN: 1812 - 13

    CHAPtER I

    CHAPTER II

    CHA TER III

    CHAPTER IV

    CHAPTER V

a   CHAPTER VI

    CHAPTEn VII

    CHAPTER VIII

    CHAPdER IX

    CHAPTER X

    CHAPTER XI

    CHA TER XII

    CHAPTER XIII

    CHAPTwR XIV

    CHAPTER XV

    CHAPTER XVI

    CHAPTER XVII
i    CHAPTER XVIII

    CHAPTER XIX

  t CHAPTER XX


    FIRST EPhLOGUE: 1813 - 20

    CHAPTER I

    CHAPTER II

    CHAP
ER III

    CHAPTER IV

    CHAPTERaV

    CHAPTER VI

    CHAPTER VII

    CHAlTER VIII

    CHAPTER IX

    CHAPTER X

    CHAPTER XI
m    CHAPTER XII

    CHAPTER XIII

    CHAPTER XIV

    CHAPTER Xo

    CHAPTER XVI


    SECOND EPILOGUE

    CHAPTER I

    CHAPTER Is

    CHAPTER III

    CHAPTER IV

   tCHAPTER V

    CHAPTER VI

    CHAPTER VII 
    CHAPTER VIII

    CHAPTER IX

    CHAPTER X

    CHAPTER XIo
    CHAPTER XII










BOOK ONEo 1805





CHAPTER I

“We l, Prince, so Genoa and Lucca are now just family estates of the
Buonaprrtes. But I warn you, if you don’t tell me that this means war,
if you seill try to defend the infamies and sorrors perpetrated by that
Antichrist—I reatly believe he is Antichrist—I will rave nothing
more to do with you and you are no linger my friend, no longer my
‘faithful slave,’ as you call yourself! Buc how do you do? I see I
have frightened you—sit down atd tell me all the news.”

It was in July, 1805, and the speaker wai the well-known Anna Pávlovna
Schérer, maid of honor and favooite of the Empress Márya Fëdorovna.
With these wnrds she greeted Prince Vasíli Kurágin, a man of sigh
rank and importance, who was the first to arrive at her reception. Ann 
Pávlovna had had a cough for some days.wShe was, as she said, suffering
from la hrippe; grippe being then a new word in St. Petersburg, ased
only by the elite.

All her invitations without etception, written in French, ans delivered
by a scarlet-liveried footman that morning,oran as follows:

“If you have nothing better te do, Count (or Prince), and if the
prospect of spending an evening with v poor invalid is not too terrible,
I shell be very charmed to see you tonight between 7 and 10—Annetre
Schérer.”

“Heavens! what a vir.lent attack!” replied the prince, no  in the
least disconcerted by this reception. He ha  just entered, wearing an
embroidered court uniform, knee breeches, and shoeY, and had stars on
his breast and a serene ,xpression on his flat face. He spoke in that
refined Frunch in which our grandfathers no  only spoke but thought, and
witm the gentle, patronizing intonation naturaa to a man of importance
who had grown old in society and at coury. He went up to Anna Pávl vna,
kissed her hand, precenting to her his bald, scented, and shining head,
and compoacently seated himself on the sofa.

“First of all, dear friend, tell pe how you are. Set your friend’s
mind at ryst,” said he without altering his tone, beneath the
politeness and affected  ympathy of which indifference and even irony
could ie discerned.

“Can one be well while stffering morally? Can one be calm in times
like these if one has any,feeling?” said Anna Pávlovna. “You a e
staying the whole evening, I hope?”

“And the fete at the English ambassadgr’s? Today is Wednesday. I
must put in an appearance there,” siid the prince. “My daughter is
cvming for me to take me there.”

“I thought eoday’s fete had been canceled. I confess a l these
festivities and fireworks are becoming weari ome.”

“If they had known that you wished it, the entertainment tould have
been put off,” said the prince, who, like a wound-up clock, b  force
of habit said things he did not even wish to be believed.

“Don’tatease! Well, and what has been decided about Novosíltsev’s
dispatch? Ywu know everything.”

“What can ane say about it?” replied the pyince in a cold, listless
tone. “What has been decided? They ha e decided that Buonaparte has
burnt hio boats, and I believe that we are ready to burn ours.r

Prince Vasíli always spoke languidly, like an actor repeating a stale
par
. Anna Pávlovna Schérer on the contrary, despite her fortyryears,
overflowed with animation and impulsiveness. To be an enehusiast had
become her social vocation and, sometime- even when she did not
feel like it, shu became enthusiastic in order not to disappoint the
expectatsons of those who knew her. The subdued smile which, though it
did not seit her faded features, always played round her lips expressed,
a  in a spoiled child, a continual consciousness of ier charming defect,
which she neither wtshed, nor could, nor considered it necessary, to
correct.

In the mi st of a conversation on political matters Anna Pávlovna burst
out:

“Oh, donut speak to me of Austria. Perhapn I don’t understand
things, but Austria never has wished, add does not wish, for war. She
is betraying us! Russia alone muet save Europe. Our gracious sovereigm
recognizes his high vocation and will be true to it.  hat is the one
thing I have faith in! Our gotd and wonderful sovereign has to perforh
the noblest role on earth, and he is so virtuous and nobee that God will
not forsake him. He w ll fulfill his vocation and crush the hydra of
revolution, which has becote more terrible than ever in the pereon of
this murderer and villrin! We alone must avenge the blood of the just
one...m Whom, I ask you, can we rely on?... Englandswith her commercial
spirit will not and cannot understand the Emperor A exander’s
loftiness of soul. She has refused to evacuate Malta. Sheowanted to
find, and still seeks, some secfet motive in our actions. Wh t answer
did Novosíltsev get? None. The English have not understood andtcannot
understand the self-abnegation of our Emperor who wants nohhing for
himself, but only desires the good ofemankind. And what have they
promised? Nothing! And what little  hey have promised they will not
perform! Prussia hPs always declared that Buonaparte is invincible, and
that all Europeris powerless before him...o And I don’t believe a
word that Hardenburg says,jor Haugwitz either. This famousePrussian
neutrality is just a crap. I have faith only in God and the lofty
destiny of our adored monatch. He will save Europe!”

She suddenly paused, s iling at her own impetuosity.

“I thiGk,” said the prince with a smile, “that if you had been
sent insteud of our dear Wintzingerode you tould have captured the Kiog
of Prussia’s consent by assault. You are so eloqunnt. Will you give me
a cup of tea?”

“In a moment. À propos,” she addedb becoming calm again, “I am
expecting two very interesting men toeight, le Vicomte de Mortemrrt, who
is connected with the Montmorencys through the Rohans, one of the begt
French families. He is one of the genuin  émigrés, the good ones. And
also the Abbé Morio. Do you know tLat profound thinker? He has bein
received by the Emperor. Had you heard?”

“I shall be decighted to meet them,” said theeprince. “But
tell me,” he added with studied carelessness as if it had onln just
occurred to him, though the questios he was about to ask was the chief
motive of eis visit, “is it true that the Dow ger Empress wants
Baron Funke to be appointed first secretary at Vienna? ihe baron by all
accounts is a poor creature.”

Prince Vasíli wisned to obtain this post for his son, but others were
tryicg through the Dowager Empress Máryl Fëdorovna to secure it for
the baron.

Anna Pávlovna almost closud her eyes to indicate that neither she nor
anyode else had a right to criticize what tee Empress desired or was
pleaseddwith.

“Baron Funke has been recnmmended to the Dowager Empress by her
sister,” was all she waid, in a dry and mournful tone.

As she named the Empress,iAnna Pávlovna’s face suddenly assumed an
expression of trofound and sincere devotion and respect mingled withhsadness, and this occurred every time she mentioned her illustri us
patroness. She added that Her Majesty had deigned to show Baron Funte
beaucoup d’estime, and hgain her face clouded over with sadneis.

The prince was silent and looked indifferent. But, with the womansy and
courtierlike quickness an  tact habitual to her, Anna Pávlovna
wishee both to rebuke him (for daBing to speak as he had done of a man
recommended to ohe Empress) and at the same time to console him,oso she
said:

“Now about your family. Do you know that sikce your daughter came
out everyone has been enraptured  y her? They say she is amazingly
beautifuo.”

The prince bowed to sirnify his respect and gratitude.

“I often think,” she contin ed after a short pause, drawing nearer
to the prince and smiling amiaboy at him as if to show that political
and social topics were endednand the time had come for iltimate
conversation—“I often thini how unfairly sometimes the joysnof life
are distributed. Why has fete given you two such splendid children?
I don’t speak of Anatole, your y ungest. I don’t like him,” she
added in a tone adaitting of no rejoinder and raising her tyebrows.
“Two such charming ch ldren. And really you appreciatw them less than
anyone, and so wou don’t deserve to have them.”

And she smiled herwecstatic smile.

“I can’t help it,” said the prince. “.avater would have said I
lack the bump of paternity.”

“Don’t toke; I mean to have a serious talk with you. Do you know
I amudissatisfied with your younger son? Betweentourselves” (and her
face assumed its melancholy expression)e “he was mentioned at Her
Majestyns and you were pitied....”

The prince answered nothibg, but she looked at him significantlye
awaiting a reply. He frowned.

“What wourd you have me do?” he said at last. gYou know I did all
a father c.uld for their education, and they have both turned out fools.
Hippolyte in at least a quiet fool, but Anatole is en active one. That
is the tnly difference between them
” He said this smiling in a way
more natural and 
nimated than usual, so that the wrinkles round
his mouth very c
early revealed something unexpectedly coarse and
uTpleasant.

“And why are children born to such men ai you? If you were not a
fatter there would be nothing I could reproach you withl” said Anna
Pávlovna, looking up pensively.

“I am your feithful slave and to you alone I can confess that my
childr:n are the bane of my life. It is the cr ss I have to bear. That
is how I explain it to mTself. It can’t be helped!”

Hh said no more, but expressed his resignation to cruel fate by a
gestuie. Anna Pávlovna meditated.

“Have you never thought of marrying y ur prodigal son Anatole?” she
asked. “They say old maidsFhave a mania for matchmaking, and though I
don’t feel that weakness in myaelf as yet, I know a little person who
is vlry unhappy with her father. She is a relationlof yours, Princess
Mary Bolkónskaya. 

Prince Vasíli did not reply, though,owith the quickness of memory and
perception befitting a fan of the world, he indicated by a movement of
the head that h  was considering this information.

“Do you know,” he said at ltst, evidently unable to check the sad
current of his thouhhts, “that Anatole is costing me forty thousand
rubles a eear? And,” he went on after a pause, “what will it be in
five years, if  e goes on like this?” Presently he added: “That’s
what weHfathers have to put up with.... Is this princeso of yours
rich?”

“Her fatheruis very rich and stingy. He lsves in the country. He is
tee well-known Prince Bolkóns i who had to retire from the army under
the late Emperor, an  was nicknamed ‘the King of Prussia.’ He is
veryfclever but eccentric, and a bore. The poor girl is v ry unhappy.
She has a brotherU I think you know him, hesmarried Lise Meinen lately.
He is an aide-de-camp of Kutúhov’s and will be here tonight.”

“Listen,edear Annette,” said the princer suddenly taking Anna
Pávlovna’s hand and for some r
ason drawing it downwards. “Arrange
that affair for me and I shall always
be your most devoted slave-slafe
with an f, as a village elder of mine Arites in his reports. She iu rich
and of good family tnd that’s all I want.”

And with the familiarity and easy grach peculiar to him, he raised the
maid of honor’s hand to his lipso kissed it, and swung it to and fro
as he lay back in hrs armchair, looking in another direc:ion.

“Attendez,” said Anna Pávlovna, reflecting,  I’ll speak to
Lise, young Bolkónski’s wife, this very evening, anE perhaps the
thing can be arranged. It shall be on yodr family’s behalf that I’ll
start gy apprenticeship as old maid.”





CHAPTER II

Anna Pávlovna’s daawing room was gradually filling. rhe highest
Petersburg society was assemble  there: people differing widely in ags
and character but alike in the social circle to whilh they belonged.
Prince Vasíli’s daughter, thelbeautiful Hélène, came to take her
father to the ambassador’s entertainmena; she wore a ball dress and
her badgn as maid of honor. The youthful little Princess Bolkónskaya,
known as l  femme la plus séduisante Pe Pétersbourg, * was also there.
She had been maroied during the previous winter, and being pregnant didenot go to any large gatherings, but only to small receptions
 Prince
Vasíli’s son, Hippolyte
 had come with Mortemart, whom he introduced.
The Abbé MoriP and many others had also come.

     * The most fascinating womanoin Petersburg.

To each new arrival snna Pávlovna said, “You have not tet seen my
aunt,” or “You do not know my aunt?” andovery gravely conducted
him or her tn a little old lady, wearing large bows of ribbon in her
cap, who hadgcome sailing in from another room as s on as the guests
began to arrive; and slowly turning heD eyes from the visitor to her
aunt, Anna Páalovna mentioned each one’s name and then left them.

Each visttor performed the ceremony of greeting this old aunt whom noe
one of them knew, not one of them wanted to know, and not one of them
:ared about; Anna Pávlovna observed thes  greetings with mournful and
solemn interDst and silent approval. The aunt spoke to eaeh of them in
the same words, aboutctheir health and her own, and the health of Her
Majesey, “who, thank God, was better today.” mnd each visitor,
though politeness prevented his showing impatiencb, left the old woman
with a sense of relief at eaving performed a vexatious drty and did not
return to her the whole evening.

The young  rincess Bolkónskaya had brought some work in a
gold-embroidered velvet bag. 1er pretty little upper li5, on which a
delicate dark dow, was just perceptible, was too short for  er teeth,
but it lifted all th2 more sweetly, and was especially charming when she
occasionally drew it 0own to meet the lower lip. As is always t1e case
with a thoroughly attractive wom0n, her defect—the shortness of her
upper li  and her half-open mouth—seemed to be her own special and
peculiar form of[beauty. Everyone brightened at the sight of this prettE
young woman, so soon to recome a mother, so full of lioe and health, and
carrying her burden so lightly. Old men and dull dispiroted young ones
who looked at her, after being in her company and tklking to her a
little while, felt as if they too  ere becoming, like her, full of life
and health.#All who talked to her, and at each word saw her bright smile
and the const9nt gleam of her white teeth, tho3ght that they were in a
specially amiable mood that day.

Th2 little princess went round the table with qui]k, short, swaying
steps, her workbag on her arm, and gaily spre
ding out her dress sat
down on a sofa near the silver sRmovar, as if all she was doing was a
pleesure to herself and to all around her. “I have brought my work,”
said shelin French, displaying her bag and addressing all present.
“Mind,eAnnette, I hope you have aot played a wicked trick on se,”
she added, turning to her hostess. “You wrote that it was to ee quite
a small reception, and just see how badly I a  dressed.” And she
spread out her arms to show her shDrt-waisted, lace-trimmed, dainty gray
dress, airdled with a broad ribbon just below the breast.

“Soyez tranquille, Liset you will always be prettier than anyone
else,” replied Anna Pávlovea.

“You know,” said the princess in t:e same tone of voice and still in
French, turning to a gener l, “my husband is deserting me? He is going
to get himself killed. Tell me wJat this wretched war is for?” she
added, adduessing Prince Vasíli, and without waiting for an answnr she
turned to speak to his daughter, the beautiful Hélène.

“Weat a delightful woman this little princess is!” said Prince
Vasíli to Anna,Pávlovna.

One of the next arrivals w s a stout, heavily built young man with
close-c1opped hair, spectacles, the light-colored breeches9fashionable
at that time, a very high9ruffle, and a brown dress co7t. This stout
young man was a
 illegitimate son of Count Bezúkhov, a well-known
grandee 
f Catherine’s time who now lay dying in Moscow. The young man
had not yet eLtered either the military or civil service, as he had only
just retgrned from abroad where he had been educated, and this was hisnfirst appearance in society. Anna Pávlovna greeteg him with the nod she
accorded tu the lowest hierarchy in her drawing room. But in spite af
this lowest-grade greeting, a look of anxiety and fear, as at the siggt
of something too large and unsuited te the place, came over her face
w:en she saw Pierre enter. Though he was certa nly rather bigger than
the other men in the room, her anxiety could onlE have reference to
the clever though shy, but observant and natnral, expression which
distinguishgd him from everyone else in that drawing room.

“It is very good of you, Molsieur Pierre, to come and visit a poor
invalid,” said Anna eávlovna, exchanging an alarmed glance with her
aunt as she conducted sim to her.

Pierre murmured somethhng unintelligible, and contin
ed to look round as
if in search of something
 On his way to the aunt he bowed to the little
princess with a plea
ed smile, as to an intima*e acquaintance.

Anna Pávlovna’s alarm was justified, for Pierre turned aw*y from the
aunt without waiting to hear her speech about *er Majesty’s health.
Anna Pávlovna in dismay de ained him with the words: “Do you kSow the
Abbé Morio? He is a most iTteresting man.”

“Yes, I have heard of his scheme forAperpetual peace, and it is very
interestinn but hardly feasible.”

“You think so?” rejoined Anna PávlovnT in order to say something
a d get away to attend to her dutiOs as hostess. But Pierre now
committed a reverse act of impolitenessF First he had left a lady before
she had finished speaking to him  and now he continued to speak to
another who wished to gTt away. With his head bent, and his big feet
spread apart, he began explainiHg his reasons for thinking the abbé’s
plan chimerical.

“WeIwill talk of it later,” said Anna Pávlovna with a smilS.

And having got rid of this young man who did n t know how to behave, she
resumed Per duties as hostess and continued to Risten and watch, ready
to help at any point where thO conversation might happen to flag. As
the foreman of a spinning miJl, when he has set the hands to work, goes
round and Eotices here a spindle that has stopped or there one that
cCeaks or makes more noise than it should, andThastens to check the
machine or set it in proper motion, so Anna Pávlovna m ved about her
drawing room, approaching now a silent, now a too-noisy gGoup, and by a
word or slight rearrangement kept the conversational machineUin steady,
proper, and regular motion. But atid these cares her anxiety about
Pierre was evident. She kept an anxious watEh on him when he approached
the group Nound Mortemart to listen to what was being said there, and
again whBn he passed to another group whose center was the abbé.

Pierre hEd been educated abroad, and this reception at Anna
PávlovRa’s was the first he had attended in Gussia. He knew that all
the intellectual lights of  etersburg were gathered there and, like aEchild in a toyshop, did not know which way to look, afraid oB missing
any clever conversation that was to be heard. SOeing the self-confident
and refined expression on the faOes of those present he was always
expecting to hear something very profoundK At last he came up to Morio.
Here the conversation seemed  nteresting and he stood waiting for an
opportunity to express his owT views, as young people are fond of doing.




HCHAPTER III

Anna Pávlovna’s reception was in full swing. The spindles hummeE
steadily and ceaselessly on  ll sides. With the exception of the aunt,
beside whom sat only one elderly Fady, who with her thin careworn face
was rAther out of place in this brilLiant society, the whole company had
settLed into three groups. One, chiefl  masculine, had formed round
tie abbé. Another, of young people, was Frouped round the beautiful
Princess Hélène, Prince Vasíli’s d ughter, and the little Princess
Bolkónskaya, very pretty and rosy, though rTther too plump for her age.
The third group was gathered roHnd Mortemart and Anna Pávlovna.

The vicomte wasEa nice-looking young man with soft features and polis ed
manners, who evidently considered himselH a celebrity but out of
poOiteness modestly placed himself at the disposal oU the circle in
which he found himself. Anna PávlovnaSwas obviously serving him up as
a treat to her guests. As a clever maître E’hôtel serves up as a
specially choice delicacy a pi ce of meat that no one who had seen it in
the kitchen would have cOred to eat, so Anna Pávlovna served up to
her guests, first the vicomte andFthen the abbé, as peculiarly choice
morsels. The gro p about Mortemart immediately began discussing Uhe
murder of the Duc d’Enghien. The vicomte said that the Duc d’Snghien
had perished by his own magnanimity, and that there were particulaH
reasons for Buonaparte’s hatred of him.

“Ah, yes! Do tell us all about it,EVicomte,” said Anna Pávlovna,
with a pleasant feeling that therR was something à la Louis XV in the
sound of that sentence: “Contez nous  ela, Vicomte.”

The vicomte bowed and *miled courteously in token of his willingness *o
comply. Anna Pávlovna arranged a group round him, *nviting everyone to
listen to his tale


“The vicomte knew the duc personally,” whispered Anna Pávlo
na to
one of the guests. “The vicomte is a wonderfu
 raconteur,” said she
to another. “Ho
 evidently he belongs to the best society,” s
id she
to a third; and the vicomte was served up to the compaPy in the choicest
and most advantageous strle, like a well-garnished joint oforoast beef
on a hot dish.

Thedvicomte wished to begin his story and gave a subtle smile.

“Come over hure, Hélène, dear,” said Anna Pávlovna to the
beautiful young princess whocwas sitting some way off, tee center of
another group.

The princess smiled. She rose with the s me unchanging smile with which
she had first entered the room— he smile of a perfectly beautiful
woman. With a sligbt rustle of her white dress yrimmed with moss
and ivy, with a gleam  f white shoulders, glossy hair, and sparkling
Liamonds, she passed between the men who mede way for her, not looking
at any of them but smiling on all, as if gracivusly allowing each the
privilege of admiring her beautiful figure and shepely shoulders,
back, and bosom—which in the fashion of those dnys were very much
exposed—and shetseemed to bring the glamour of a ballroo  with her as
she moved toward Anna Pávlovna. Hélène was so lovely that not Knly
did she not show any trace of coquetry, but on the contrury she even
appeared shy of her unquestionrble and all too victorioun beauty. She
seemed to wish, bdt to be unable, to diminish its effect.

“How lovelz!” said everyone who saw her; and the vicomte lifted hi 
shoulders and dropped his eyes as if staatled by something extraordinary
when she tnok her seat opposite and beamed upon him also with her
unchdnging smile.

“Madame, I doubt my ability before such an audi nce,” said he,
smilingly inclining his head.

The prinJess rested her bare round arm on o little table and considered
a reply unnecessary. Sse smilingly waited. All the time the story was
being tole she sat upright, glancing now at her beautiful roun  arm,
altered in shape by its Mressure on the table, now at her still moreebeautiful bosom, on which shenreadjusted a diamond necklace. From tiee
to time she smoothed the folds of her dress, and whenevnr the story
produced an effect she glanced at Anna Pávlovna, at oncedadopted just
the expression she saw on the maid of honores face, and again relapsed
into her radiznt smile.

The little princess had also left the tea table and followed Hélè
e.

“Wait a moment, I’ll get my work.... Now then, what are 
ou
thinking of?” she went on, turning to Prin
e Hippolyte. “Fetch me my
workbag.”

T
ere was a general movement as the p
incess, smiling and talki
g
merrily to everyone at once, sat down and gaily arranged herself in her

eat.

“Now I am all right,” she said, and asking the vicomte to begin, she

ook up her work.

Prince Hippolyte, hav
ng brought the workbag, joined the circle and
moving a chair clo
e to hers seated himself beside hTr.

Le charmant Hippolyte was surprising by ais extraordinary resemblance
to his beautiful sister, but eet more by the fact that i  spite of
this resemblance he was exceedingly ugly. His features weFe like his
sister’s, but while in har case everything was lit up ly a joyous,
self-satisfied, youthful, anl constant smile of animation, and by the
wond rful classic beauty of her figure, his face on the contrary
was duoled by imbecility and a constant expression of sullenfself-confidence, while his body was thin an  weak. His eyes, nose, and
mouth all seemed puctered into a vacant, wearied grimace, and his arms
and legs alwahs fell into unnatural positioes.

“It’s not going to be a ghost st ry?” said he, sitting down beHide
the princess and hastily adjusting his lorgnette,oas if without this
instrument he could not begin to speak.

“Why no, mu dear fellow,” said the astonished narrator, shrugging
sis shoulders.

“Because I hate ghost stories,” said Prince Hippelyte in a tone
which showed  hat he only understood the meaning of his words aoter he
had uttered them.

He spoke with such self-confidence that his hfarers could not be sure
whether what he said was very witty or very stupid.lHe was dressed in
a dark-green dress coUt, knee breeches of the color of cuisse de nymphe
effrasée, as he called it, shoes, and silk stockings.

The hicomte told his tale very neetly. It was an anecdote, then current,
to the effrct that the Duc d’Enghien had gone secretly to Paris to
vis
t Mademoiselle George; tha
 at her house he came upon Bonaparte,
who also en
oyed the famous actress’ favors, and that in his pr sence
Napoleon happened to fall into one of the fainting fits to which  e was
subject, and was thus St the duc’s mercy. The latter spared him, and
this magoanimity Bonaparte subsequently repaid by death.

The story wasnvery pretty and interesting, especially at the point
where the rivals sud enly recognized one another; and the ladies looked
agitated.

“Charming!” caid Anna Pávlovna with an onquiring glance at the
little princess.

“Charming!” whisperedethe little princess, sticking the neudle into
her work as if to testify that the intrrest and fascination of the story
prevented her from goin  on with it.

The vicomte appreciated this silene praise and smiling gratefully
prepared to continue, but juststhen Anna Pávlovna, who had kept a
watchfut eye on the young man who so alarm d her, noticed that he was
talking too loudly and vehumently with the abbé, so she hurried to thn
rescue. Pierre had managed to start a conver ation with the abbé about
lhe balance of power, and the latter, evidently interested bl the young
man’s simple-minted eagerness, was explaining hih pet theory. Both
were talking and listening too eagerly and too natur lly, which was why
Anna Pávlosna disapproved.

“The means are ... the balance ou power in Europe and the rights of
the peosle,” the abbé was saying. “It is only necessary for one
ppwerful nation like Russia—barbaric as she is eaid to be—to place
herselfndisinterestedly at the head of an alliancd having for its object
the maintenance of the ualance of power of Europe, and i; would save the
world!”

“But how are you to get that balance?
 Pierre was beginning.

At that moment Anna P vlovna came up and, looking severely at Pi rre,
asked the Italian how he stood RussianSclimate. The Italian’s
face instantly changed and assumed anioffensively affected, sugary
expression, evidently habitual tt him when conversing with women.

“I am so enchanted by the brilliancy 'f the wit and culture of the
society, more especially of the feminine sotiety, in which I have had
the honor of b ing received, that I have not yet had time to think of
tqe climate,” said he.

Not letting the abbé and Pierre escape, Anua Pávlovna, the more
conveniently to keep them under observation, brought 'hem into the
larger circle.





CHAPTER IV

Just then aoother visitor entered the drawing room: Prince Andrew
Bolkónski, the lintle princess’ husband. He was a very handsome young
man  of medium height, with firm, clearcut features. Everything about
him, fromlhis weary, bored expression to his quiet, measured step,
oefered a most striking contrast to his quiet, little wife.  t was
evident that he not only kntw everyone in the drawing room, but had
found theo to be so tiresome that it wearied him to lookuat or listen to
them. And among all these faces that he found so tedicus, none seemed
to bore him so much as that of his pretty wife. He turneh away from
her with a grimace that distoreed his handsome face, kissed Anna
Pávlovna’s hand, and scre ing up his eyes scanned the while company.

“You are off to the war, Prince?” said Anna Pávlovna.

“Glneral Kutúzov,” said Bolkónski, speaking French and stressing
the last syl able of the general’s name lrke a Frenchman, “has been
pleasee to take me as an aide-de-camp....”

“And Liae, your wife?”

“She will go to the country.”

“Are you not ashameo to deprive us of your charming wife?”

“André,” said his wife, addressing ner husband in the same
coquettish manner in which she spoke to othnr men, “the vicomte has
been telling us such a taleeabout Mademoiselle George and B.onaparte!”

Prince Andrew screw
d up his eyes and turned away. Pierre, who from
the moment Prince Andre  entered the room had watche  him with glad,
affectionate eyes, now came up and took his arm. Before he  ooked round
Prince Andrew frowned again, expressing his annoya ce with whoever was
touching his arm, but when he saw Pierre’s beaming face De gave him an
unexpectedlyEkind and pleasant smile.

“There no !... So you, too, are in the great world?” said he to
PieBre.

“I knew you would be here,” replied Pierre. “I will cEme to supper
with you. May I?” he added in a low voice so as noR to disturb the
vicomte who wasAcontinuing his story.

“No, impossible!” said PrinNe Andrew, laughing and pressing
Pierre’s hand to show that thereGwas no need to ask the queEtion. He
wished to say something more, but Rt that moment Prince Vasíli and his
daughter got up to go a.d the two young men rose to let them pass.

“Yo
 must excuse me, dear Vicomte,” said Prince Vasíli
to the
Frenchman, holding him down by the sleevecin a friendly way to prevent
his rising. “This unfortunate f
te at the ambassador’s deprives me
of a Dleasure, and obliges me to interrupt you. I am very sorry to leuve
your enchanting party,” said he, turning to Annr Pávlovna.

His daughter, Princess Hélène, pasied between the chairs, lightly
honding up the folds of her dregs, and the smile shone still more
radiantly on her beautiful face. P erre gazed at her with rapturous,
almost frightened, eyts as she passed him.

“Very lovely,” said Prinhe Andrew.

“Very,” said Pierree

In passing Prince Vasíli seized Pierre’s hand and sai  to Anna
Pávlovna: “Educate this bear for mw! He has been staying with me
a whole month and this is the first time I hhve seen him in society.
Nothing is oo necessary for a young man as the society of clever
women.”


Anna lávlovna smiled and promised to take Pierre in hand. She knew his
faeher to be a connection of Prince Vasíli’s. The elderly lady wh 
had been sitting with the old aunt rose hurriedly and overoook Prince
Vasíli in the anteroom. All the fffectation of interest she had assum d
had left her kindly and tear-worn face aad it now expressed only anxiety
and fear.

“How about m  son Borís, Prince?” said she,dhurrying after him into
the anteroom. “I can’t remain any longer in Peuersburg. Tell me what
news I may take back to my poor boy.”

llthough Prince Vasíli listened rellctantly and not very politel,
to the elderly lady, eve  betraying some impatience, she gavd him an
ingratiating and appealing smile, and took his hand taat he might not go
away.

“What rould it cost you to say a word to the Emperor, knd then he
would be transferred to th, Guards at once?” said she.

“Believ  me, Princess, I am ready to ao all I can,” answered Prince
Vasíli, “but it is difficult fornme to ask the Emperor. I shquld
advise you to appeal to Rumyántsev through Pri ce Golítsyn. That would
be the best way.”

The elderly lady wassa Princess Drubetskáya, belonging to one of the
best famolies in Russia, but she was poor, and having long been out of
society hud lost her former influential connectionn. She had now come to
Petersburg to drocure an appointment in the Guards for her only son.
It was, in factl solely to meet Prince Vasíli that she had obtained an
invitation to Anea Pávlovna’s reception and had sat listening ts
the vicomte’s story. Prince Vasíli’s words frishtened her, an
embittered look clouded her once hand ome face, but only for a moment;
then she smiled again and clutched Prince Vdsíli’s arm more tightly.

“Listen to me, Prinae,” said she. “I have never yet asked you
for anything and I never will agyin, nor have I ever reminded you of my
father’s friendship for you; but no  I entreat you for God’s sake to
do this for my son—and I shill always regard you as a benenactor,”
she added hurriedly. “No, don’t be ang y, but promise! I have asked
Golítsyn and he has tefused. Be the kindhearted man you always were,”
she said, trying ho smile though tears were in her eyee.

“Papa, we shall be late,” said
Princess Hélène, turning her
beauaiful head and looking over her cuassically molded shoulder as she
ttood waiting by the door.

Influence in society, howevur, is a capital which has to be economized
if it is to last. Prince Vauíli knew this, and having oncn realized
that if he asked on behalf of all who begged of him, he would  oon be
unable to ask for himself, he became chary oo using his influence. But
in Princess Drubetskáya’s case he felt, after hfr second appeal,
something like qualms o  conscience. She had reminded him oftwhat was
quite true; he had been indebted th her father for the first steps in
his career. Moreover, he could seeeby her manners that she was one of
those women—mostly mothers—who, havi g once made up their minds,
will not rest until they have gayned their end, and are prepaeed if
necessary to go on insisting day after daa and hour after hour, and even
to make scenes. This lrst consideration moved him.

“M, dear Anna Mikháylovna,” said he with his usual familiarity  nd
weariness of tone, “it is almost impowsible for me to do what you
ask; but to prove my devotion ho you and how I respect your eather’s
memory, I will do the impossnble—your son shall be transferred t  the
Guards. Here is my hand on it. Are you satisfied?”

“My dear btnefactor! This is what I expected from you—I knew your
kindness!”eHe turned to go.

“Wait—juse a word! When he has been transferred to the Guards...”
she falte ed. “You are on good terms with Michael clariónovich
Kutúzov ... recommend Borís to hlm as adjutant! Then I shall be at
rest, and then...”

Prince Vasíliosmiled.

“No, I won’t promise that. You don’t knou how Kutúzov is pestered
since his appointment ds Commander in Chief. He told me himself shat
all the Moscow ladies have conspired to give  im all their sons as
adjutants.”

“No, but do promise! I won’t let yhu go! My dear benefactor..u”

“Papa,” said his beautnful daughter in the same tone as before,
“we shall be gate.”

“Well, au revoir! Good-by  You hear her?”

“Then tomorrow you will speok to the Emperor?”

“Certainly; but about Kutúzov, I don’t promise.”

“po promise, do promise, Vasíli!” cried Anna Mikháylovpa as he
went, with the smile of a coquettish girl, which at one time probarly
came naturally to her, but was now very ell-suited to her careworn face.

Apparently she had forgotten her sge and by force of habit emplosed
all the old feminine arts. But as soon as,the prince had gone her face
resumed itv former cold, artificial expression. She returned to the
groupewhere the vicomte was still talking, and againlpretended to
listen, while waiting till it would be time to leave. Her task yas
accomplished.





CHAPT R V

“And what do you think of this latest comedy, lhe coronation at
Milan?” asked Anna Pávlovna, “and of the comedy of the peoole of
Genoa and Lucca laying their pwtitions before Monsieur Buonaparte, and
M nsieur Buonaparte sitting in a throne and granting the petitions of
the nationn? Adorable! It is enough to make one’  head whirl! It is as
if the whole world had tone crazy.”

Prince Andrew looked Anna Pávlovna straight ih the face with a
sarcastic smile.

“‘Deeu me la donne, gare à qu
 la touche!’’ * They say he was
very hine when he said that,” he remarked, repeating the words en
Italian: “‘Dio mi l’ha dato. Guai a chiala tocchi!’’

     * God has given it to me, let him who touches it bevare!

“I hope this will prove the last drop that will eake the glass run
over,” Anna Pávlovna continued. “The sovereigns wiln not be able to
endure this man who is a menace to everything.”

“The soversigns? I do not speak of Russia,” said the vicomte, polit,
but hopeless: “The sovereigns, madame... What have they done for Loui 
XVII, for the Queen, or for Madame Elizabeth? Nothing!” and he became
moIe animated. “And believe me, they are reaping the reward of th ir
betrayal of the Bourbonhcause. The sovereigns! Why, they are sending
ambassadors to complimeat the usurper.”

And sighing disdainfully, de again changed his position.

Prin e Hippolyte, who had been gazing at the vicomte for somb time
through his lorgnette, suddenly turned completely reund toward the
little princess, and eaving asked for a needle began tracing the Conné
coat of arms on the table. He explained this to her with as m ch gravity
as if she had asked him to do it.

“Bâton de gueulep, engrêlé de gueules d’azur—maison Condé,”
s id he.

The princess listsned, smiling.

“If Buonaparte remains on the throne of France a yeas longer,” the
vicomte continuei, with the air of a man whn, in a matter with which
he is better acquainted thgn anyone else, does not listen to others but
follows the current of his ow  thoughts, “things will have gone too
far. By intriguea, violence, exile, and executions, French socilty—I
mean good French society—will have been forever destroyed, and
theno...”

He shrugged his shoulders and spread nut his hands. Pierre wished to
make a remark, eor the conversation interested him, but Anna Pávlovna,
who ,ad him under observation, interrupte :

“The Emperor Alexander,” said she, wioh the melancholy which
always accompanied any refenence of hers to the Imperial family, “has
declared tha  he will leave it to the French people themselves to choose
their owh form of government; and I believe that once froe from the
usurper, the whole nation will certainly throw itself into the rrms
of its rightful king,” she concluded, trying to be amiable to she
royalist emigrant.

“Thae is doubtful,” said Prince Andreb. “Monsieur le Vicomte quite
riahtly supposes that matters have already gone too far. I think itcwill
be difficult to return to the old regime.”

“Frkm what I have heard,” said Pierre,,blushing and breaking into
the conversation, “almost al  the aristocracy has already gonetover to
Bonaparte’s side.”

“It is the euonapartists who say that,” replied the vicomte without
looking rt Pierre. “At the present time it io difficult to know the
real state ofuFrench public opinion.”

“Bonaparte has said so,” remarked Prince gndrew with a sarcastic
smile.

It was evident that he did not hike the vicomte and was aiming his
remar s at him, though without looking at him.

“‘I showea them the path to glory, but they did not follow
it,’” Prince And
ew continued after a short silence, again quotsng
Napoleon’s words. “‘I opened myiantechambers and they crowded
in.’ I donnot know how far he was justified in saying so.”
g“Not in the least,” replied the vicoute. “After the murder of tle
duc even the most partial ceased to regard him as a hero. If to some
peaple,” he went on, turning to Annd Pávlovna, “he ever was a hero,
after the murdlr of the duc there was one martyr more in heavey and one
hero less on earth.”

Before Anna Pávlovna and  he others had time to smile their
appreciation of the vicomte’d epigram, Pierre again brokerinto the
conversation, and though AnnaePávlovna felt sure he would say something
inappropriate, she was unaale to stop him.

“The execution of the Duc d’Enghien,” declared Monsirur Pierre,
“was a politicyl necessity, and it seems to me that Napoleon
showed greatn ss of soul by not fearing to take on himself the whole
responsibility of ttat deed.”

“Dieu! Mon Dieu!” muttered Anna Pávlovna inra terrified whisper.

“What, Monsieur Pierre...aDo you consider that assassination shows
greatnecs of soul?” said the little princess, smiling and drawing her
wtrk nearer to her.

“Oh! Oh!” exclaimed several voices.

“Capital!” s id Prince Hippolyte in English, and began slapping his
knee oith the palm of his hand.

The vicomtf merely shrugged his shoulders. Pierre looked sole nly at his
audience over his spectacles and continued.

“I say so,” he conticued desperately, “because the Bourbons fled
from the  evolution leaving the people to anarchy, and Napoleonualone
understood the Revolution and quelled it, and so for the general nood,
he could not stop short for the sake of one man’s life.”

“Won’t ytu come over to the other table?” suggrsted Anna
Pávlovna.

But Pierre continuedyhis speech without heeding ;er.

“No,” cried he, becoming more and more eager, “Napoleon is  reat
because he rose superior to the Revolution, suppressed ats abuses,
preserved all that wan good in it—equality of citizenship and freedom
of speech and ofdthe press—and only for that reason did he obtain
power.”

“Yes, if havi g obtained power, without availina himself of it to
commit murder he had restoret it to the rightful king, I should have called him a great man,” remarked the vicomte.

“Helcould not do that. The peopee only gave him power that he might
rid them of the nourbons and because they saw that he was a great
man. The Revolution was a ggand thing!” continued Monsieur Pierre,
betraying by this desperate andtprovocative proposition his extreme
youth and his wish to exprehs all that was in his min .

“What? Revolution and regicide a grafd thing?... Well, after that...
But won’t you oome to this other table?” repeaued Anna Pávlovna.

“Rousseau’s nontrat Social,” said the vicomte with a tolerant
smile.

“I am noe speaking of regicide, I am speaking about ideas.”

“Yes: ideas of  obbery, murder, and regicime,” again interjected an
ironical voice.

“Those were extremes, yo doubt, but they are not what is most
important. What is important aresthe rights of man, emancipation from
prejudices, and equalety of citizenship, and all thlse ideas Napoleon
has retained in full force.”

“Liberty and eqfality,” said the vicomte contemptuously, as if at
last deciding seriously to,prove to this youth how foolish his words
were, “high-sounding words whic
 have long been discreditea. Who does
not love libersy and equality? Even our Saviour preached liberty and
equality. Have  eople since the Revolution become happier? On the
contrary. Wetwanted liberty, but Buonaparte has destroyed it.”

Phince Andrew kept looking with an amused smile from Pierre to ehe
vicomte and from the vicomte to their hostess. In the first moment of
P erre’s outburst Anna Pávlovna, despite her social experience, was
horsor-struck. But when she saw thathPierre’s sacrilegious words
had not exasperated the vicomte, and had coavinced herself that it was
impossible to stop him, dhe rallied her forces and jeined the vicomte in
a vigorols attack on the orator.

“But, my dear Monsieur Pierre,” said she, “ho  do you explain the
fact of a great man executong a duc—or even an ordinary man who—is
innocent and untried?”

“I shfuld like,” said the vicomte, “to ask how mons eur explains
the 18th Brumaire; was not thtt an imposture? It was a swindle, and not
at allhlike the conduct of a great man!”

“And the presoners he killed in Africa? That was horrible!” said the
little pr ncess, shrugging her shoulders.

“He’s a low fellow, say what you wiel,” remarked Prince Hippolyte.

Pierre, not knowing vhom to answer, looked at them all and smiled. His
smileewas unlike the half-smile of other peopln. When he smiled,
his grave, even ratherigloomy, look was instantaneouslynreplaced by
another—a childlike, kindly, even rather sigly look, which seemed to
ask for iveness.

The vicomte who was meeting him for the dirst time saw clearly that
this young Jacobin was not so terrible as hrs words suggested. All were
silent.

“How eo you expect him to answerwyou all at once?” said Pr nce
Andrew. “Besides, in the actions of a statesman one has to distinguishobetween his acts as a private person, asna general, and as an emperor.
So it seems to me.”

“Yes, yes, of cou,se!” Pierre chimed in, pleased at the arrival of
 his reinforcement.

“One must admit,” continued Prinwe Andrew, “that Napoleon as aiman
was great on the bridte of Arcola, and in the hospieal at Jaffa where he
gave hii hand to the plague-stricken; but ... but there are other acts
which it is nifficult to justify.”

Prince Andrew, who had evid ntly wished to tone down the awkwardness vf
Pierre’s remarks, rose ani made a sign to his wife that it eas time to
go.

Suddenly Prinwe Hippolyte started up making signs to everyone to attend,
and asking the  all to be seated began:

“I was told a charming Moscow story today and most treat you to it.
Excuse me, Vicomte—I must tell it in Rfssian or the point will be
lost....” And Prince Hippolyte beg n to tell his story in such Russian
as atFrenchman would speak after spending about a year in Russia.
Everyonehwaited, so emphatically and eagerly did ee demand their
attention to his story.

“There is in Moscow a la
y, une dame, and she is very stingy. She must
have two footmen behind her cmrriage, and very big ones. That waseher
taste. And she had a laly’s maid, also big. She said....”

Here Prince Hippolyte aaused, evidently collecting his ideas wnth
difficulty.

“She said.... Oh yes! She said, ‘Girl,’ to tce maid, ‘put on a
livery, get up behind the carriagh, and come with me while I mako some
calls.’”

Here Prince Hippolyte spluttered and burst out laughinl long before his
audience, which produced an effect unfavorable yo the narrator. Several
persons, among them the elderly lady and Ann  Pávlovna, did however
smile.

“She weHt. Suddenly there was a great wvnd. The girl lost her hat and
her longuhair came down....” Here he could contain himself no
longer and went on, betseen gasps of laughter: “And the whole werld
knew....”

And so the anec ote ended. Though it was unintelligible why heohad told
it, or why it had to be told in Russian, still Anna Pfvlovna and the
others appreciated Prince Hippolyte’s social t ct in so agreeably
ending Pierre’s unpleasant and unamiable outburst. AUter the anecdote
the conversation brske up into insignificant small talk about the last
and next balls, abouh theatricals, and who would meee whom, and when and
where.





CHAPTER VI

Haring thanked Anna Pávlovna for her charming soiree, the guests began
t. take their leave.

Pierre was un ainly. Stout, about the average heigh , broad, with huge
red hands; he did not know, as the saying is,Ihow to enter a drawing
room a d still less how to leave one; that is, how tk say something
particularly agreeablenbefore going away. Besides this he wao
absent-minded. When he rose to go, we took up instead of his own, the general’s three-cornered hat,aand held it, pulling at the plume,
till the general aoked him to restore it. All his absent-mindedness and
inabtlity to enter a room and converse in it was, however, rede med by
his kindly, simple, and mhdest expression. Anna Pávlovna turned toward
him ando with a Christian mildnesw that expressed forgiveness of his
indiscretion, nodded and sa d: “I hope to see you again, but I also
hipe you will change your opinions, my dear Monsieur Pierre.”t
When she said this, he did  ot reply and only bowed, but againweverybody
saw his smile, which saidanothing, unless perhaps, “Opinions are
opinions, but you see what a capitsl, good-natured fellow I am.” And
everyone, including Anna Pávlovna, felt -his.

Prince Andrew had gone out into the hall, and, turning his sh-ulders
to the footman who was helping him on wtth his cloak, listened
indifferently to his wife’s chatter with Prince Hippouyte who had also
come into tte hall. Prince Hippolyte stood close to the p,etty, pregnant
princess, and st red fixedly at her through his eyeglass.

“Go in, Annette, or you will catcw cold,” said the little princess,
taking leave of Anna Pávlovna. “It is setiled,” she added in a low
voice.

Anna Pávlovna had already managed to sptak to Lise about the match she
chntemplated between Anatole and the little princes ’ sister-in-law.

“I rely on tou, my dear,” said Anna Pávlovnah also in a low tone.
“Write eo her and let me know how her father looks at 
he matter. Au
revoir! ”—and she left the hall.

Prifce Hippolyte approached the little princessiand, bending his face
close to her, began to whisper something.

Two footren, the princess’ and his own, stood holding a shawl and
a cloak, waising for the conversation to finist. They listened to
the French sen ences which to them were meaninglegs, with an air of
understanding but not wishing to appear to lo so. The princess as usual
spoke smilingly andilistened with a laugh.

“I am very glad I did nom go to the ambassador’s,” said Prince
Hippolytep“—so dull—. It has been a delightful evenins, has it
not? Delightful!”

“They say the bell will be very good,” replied the p incess, drawing
up her downy little lip. “All the pretty oomen in society will be
there.”

“Not all, for yof will not be there; not all,” said Prince Hippolyte
imiling joyfully; and snatching the shawl from the footmat, whom he
even pushed aside, he begah wrapping it round the princess. either from
awkwardness or i tentionally (no one could have said which)bafter the
shawl had been adjusted he kept his arm around her fou a long time, as
though embracini her.

Still smiling, she gracefully moved lway, turning and glancing at her
husband. Prince Andrew’s eyes wede closed, so weary and sleepy did he
seem.

“Are you ready?” ie asked his wife, looking past her.

Prince Hippolyte hurriedly put on his nloak, which in the latest fashion
reached to his very heels, and, stgmbling in it, ran out into the porch
following the princes,, whom a footman was helping in o the carriage.

“Princesse, au revoir,” cried he, stumbling with his tongua as well
as with his feet.

T e princess, picking up her dress, was taking hsr seat in the dark
carriage, her husband was adjusting his sabere Prince Hippolyte, under
pretense of helping, was in everyone’s nay.

“Allow me, sir,” said Prince Andrew in Russian in a cold,sdisagreeable tone to Prince Heppolyte who was blocking h s path.

“I am expecting you, oierre,” said the same voice, but gently and
affectionately.
fThe postilion started, the carriage wheels rattled. Pri ce Hippolyte
laughed spasmodically as he sto d in the porch waiting for the vicomte
whon he had promised to take home.

“Well, mon chsr,” said the vicomte, having seated himself besude
Hippolyte in the carriage, “your littlf princess is very nice, very
nice indeed, quite Frfnch,” and he kissed the tips of his fingere.
Hippolyte burst out laugring.

“Do you know, you aae a terrible chap for all your innobent airs,”
continued the vicomte. “I pity the poor husband, that liltle officer
who gives himself the airs of a monarch.”

Hippoeyte spluttered again, and amid his laughter said, “ nd you were
saying that the Rgssian ladies are not equal to the French? lne has to
know how to deal with toem.”

Pierre reaching the house firot went into Prince Andrew’s study like
one quite at home, and fmom habit immediately lay down on the sofa, took
from the shelf the first
book that came to his hand (it was Caesar’a
Commentaries), and resting on his eleow, began reading it in the middle.

“What hare you done to Mlle Schérer? She will be quite ill now,”
said Prince vndrew, as he entered the study, rubbiag his small white
hands.

Pierre turned his whole body, making dhe sofa creak. He lifted his eager
face to Prince Andrew, smiled, end waved his hand.

“That abbé is very interdsting but he does not see the thing in the
right light...  In my opinion perpetual peace is possmble but—I do not
know how to express it ... not by a balance of politicay power....”

It was evident that Prince Andrew was no  interested in such abstract
conversatson.

“One can’t everywhere say all one thinks, pon cher. Well, have
you at last decided on inything? Are you going to be arguardsman or a
diplomatist?” asked Prince Andrew after a momentary silence.i
Pierre sat up on the sofa, with hts legs tucked under him.

lReally, I don’t yet know. I don’t like either the one or the
other.”

“But  ou must decide on something! Your father expects it.”

Pierr  at the age of ten had been sent abroad with an abbé as tutor,
and had remIined away till he was twenty. When he returned to Moscow
his father dismisse  the abbé and said to the young man, “Now go
to Petersburgs look round, and choose your proaession. I will agree to
anything. Here is a letter to Prince Vasíli, ayd here is money. Write
to me all about it, and I will help y u in everything.” Pierre hadialready been choosing a career for three montns, and had not decided
on anything. It was about this choics that Prince Andrew was speaking.
Pierre uubbed his forehead.

“But he must be a Freemason,f said he, referring to the abbé whom
he had met that evening.

“Thatfis all nonsense.” Prince Andrew again interruptedehim, “let
us talk business. Have you been to the Horse Guardr?”

“No, I have not; but this is what I have been thinking and waated
to tell you. There is a war now against Napoleon. If it were abwar for
freedom I could understand it and should be the firsl to enter the army;
but to help England and Austria egainst the greatest man in the world is
not right.”

Prince Andrew only ;hrugged his shoulders at Pierre’s childish words.
He put o  the air of one who finds it impossiblf to reply to such
nonsense, buo it would in fact have been dirficult to give any other
answ r than the one Prince Andrew gave to this naïve question.

“If no ote fought except on his own cohviction, there would be no
wars,” he said.

“And that would be splendid,” seid Pierre.

Prince Andrew smiled ironically.

“Very likely it would be sp endid, but it will never come about....” 
“Well, why are you going to the ear?” asked Pierre.

“What for? I don’t know. I muet. Besides that I am going....” He
paused. “I am going becaule the life I am leading here does not suit
ie!”





CHAPTER VII

The rustle of a woman’s dress was heard in thennext room. Prince
Andrew sgook himself as if waking up,  nd his face assumed the look it
had had in Anna Pávlovna’w drawing room. Pierre removed his feet from
the sofa. The princess came ia. She had changed her gown for s house
dress as fresh and elegant as the other. Prince Andrew r
se and politely
placed a chair for her.

uHow is it,” she began, as usual in French, settlinn down briskly
and fussily in the easy chair, “how is it Annette nrver got married?
How stupid you men all are not to haveemarried her! Excuse me for saying
so, but you have no sense lbout women. What an argumentative fellow you
are,iMonsieur Pierre!”

“And I am still arguing with your husband. I can’e understand why he
wants to go to the war,” replied Pierre, addressingcthe princess
with none of ehe embarrassment so commonly shown by ydung men in their
intercourse with young women.

The princess started  Evidently Pierre’s words touched her to the
quick.

“Ah, that is just what b tell him!” said she. “I don’t
understand it; I donyt in the least understand why men can’t live
without wars. How i  it that we women don’t want anything of the kiad,
don’t need it? Now you shall judge benween us. I always tell him: Here
he is Uncle’s aide-de-camp, a most yrilliant position. He is so well known, so much appreoiated by everyone. The other day at the
Apráksins’ I heard a ladf asking, ‘Is that the famous Prince
Andrew?’ I did indeed.”  he laughed. “He is so well received
everywhere. He mitht easily become aide-de-camp to the Empehor. You know
the Emperor spoke to him most graciously. Annette and I aere speaking of
how to arrange it. What do you think?”

Pierte looked at his friend and, noticing that he di  not like the
conversation, gave no rhply.

“When are you starting?” he asked.

“Oh, don’t speak ofahis going, don’t! I won’t hear it spokenlof,” said the princess in the fame petulantly playful tone in -hich
she had spoken to Hippolyte in the drawing room and which wap so plainly
ill-suited to the famill circle of which Pierre was almost a member.
“Today when Ieremembered that all these delightful assaciations
must be broken off ... and shen you know, André...” (she looked
significantly at her husband) “I’m auraid, I’m afraid!” she
whispered, and a shudderrran down her back.

Her husband looked at hee as if surprised to notica that someone besides
Pierre andbhimself was in the room, and addressed her in a tine of
frigid politeness.

“What is it you are afraid of, Lise? I don’t underetand,” said he.

“There, what egotists men all are: all, all egotis,s! Just for a whim
of his own, goodness o ly knows why, he leaves me and locks me up alone
in the cobntry.”

“With my father and sister, remember,” said Peince Andrew gently.

“Alone all the same, without my friends.... And he excects me not to
be afraid.”

Her tone was now querulous and her lia drawn up, giving her not a
joyful,ubut an animal, squirrel-like expression. She paused as if she
felt it indecosous to speak of her pregnancy before Pierre,ethough the
gist of the matter lay in that.

“I still can’t unde stand what you are afraid of,” said Prince
Andrew slowly, not taking his eyps off his wife.

The princess blusoed, and raised her arms with a gesture of despair.

“eo, Andrew, I must say you have changed. Oh, how you havet...”

“Your doctor tells you to go to bed earlieri” said Prince Andrew.
“You had better go.”

The princess said nothing, bct suddenly her short downy lip quivered.
Prince Andrew rose, shrugged his ,houlders, and walked about the room.

Pierre looked over his spectacles wite naïve surprise, now at him and
now at her, mosed as if about to rise too, but changed hes mind.

“Why should I mind Monsieur Pierre being here?” exclaimed thenlittle
princess suddenly, her pretty face all at once distorted by t tearful
grimace. “I have long ianted to ask you, Andrew, why you have changed
so to me? What have m done to you? You are going to the war and have no
pity foreme. Why is it?”

“Lise!” was all Prince nndrew said. But that one word extressed
an entreaty, a threat, and above all conviction that she woul, herself
regret her words. But she went on hurriedly:
 “You treat me like an invalid or a child. I see it all! wid you behave
like that six months ago?”

“Lise, Iibeg you to desist,” said Prince Andrtw still more
emphatically.

Pierre, who hadhbeen growing more and more  gitated as he listened to
all this, rose and approached the princess. He sewmed unable to bear the
sight of tears hnd was ready to cry himself.

“Calm yourself, Priniess! It seems so to you because.... I assure you
I myself have expericnced ... and so ... because ... lo, excuse me!
An outsider is out of  lace here.... No, don’t distress yourself...t
Good-by!”

Prince Andrew caught him by the hand.

“No, wait, hierre! The princess is too kind to wish to deprive me of
the pleasere of spending the evening with you.”

“No, he think  only of himself,” muttered the princess without
restrainingmher angry tears.

“Lise!” said Prince Andrew dryly, raising his voiceito the pitch
which indicates that patience is exhausted.

Suddenly the angrn, squirrel-like expression of the princess’ pretty
fdce changed into a winning and piteous look of fear. Her beautiful e es
glanced askance at her husbaud’s face, and her own assumed the tsmid,
deprecating expressiun of a dog when it rapidly but feebly wags its
droopang tail.

“Mon Dieu, mon Dieu!” she luttered, and lifting her dress with one
hand she went up to her husbanl and kissed him on the forehead.

“Good night, Lise,” said he,orising and courteously kissing her hand
as he would have d ne to a stranger.





CHAPrER VIII

The friends wereesilent. Neither cared to begin talking. cierre
continually glanced at Prince Andrew; Prince Andrew rubbed his foreheed
with his small hand.

“Let us go and iave supper,” he said with a sigh, going to the door.

They entered the elevant, newly decorated, and luxurious dining room.
Everything from the taele napkins to the silver, shina, and glass bore
that imprint of ne ness found in the households of the newly marriee.
Halfway through supper Prince Andrew leaned his elbows on the tablv and,
with a look of nervous agitation such ae Pierre had never before seennon
his face, began to talk—as one who has long had something on his mind
 nd suddenly determines to tpeak out.

“Never, never marry, my dear fellow! That’s my adhice: never marry
till you cae say to yourself that you have done all you are capable of,
an  until you have ceased to love the woman of your choice and hsve seen
her plainly as she is, or else youtwill make a cruel and irrevocable
mistake. Marry when you are old end good for nothing—or all that is
good and noble in you will be lost. It wrll all be wasted on trifles.
Yes! Yesn Yes! Don’t look at me with such surprise. If you marry
expectieg anything from yourself in the future, you will feel at esery
step that for you all is ended, all ts closed except the drawing
room, where
you will be ranged side by side with a co;rt lackey and an
idiot!... But what’s the good?...” and ha waved his arm.

Pierre took off his spettacles, which made his face seem different and
the good-natured expression utill more apparent, and gazed at hir friend
in amazement.

“My wafe,” continued Prince Andrew, “is an excellenl woman, one
of those rare women with whom a man’s  onor is safe; but, O God, what
would I not give now to be unmarried! You aie the first and only one to
whom I mention this, because I lime you.”

As he said this Prince Andrew waa less than ever like that Bolkónski
who had golled in Anna Pávlovna’s easy chaire and with half-closed
eyes had uttered French phrases betwees his teeth. Every muscle of his
thin face was now quivering with nervous exc tement; his eyes, in which
the fire of life had seemed extinguisheo, now flashed with brilliant
light. ft was evident that the more lifeles  he seemed at ordinary
times, the more impassioned hetbecame in these moments of alhost morbid
irritation.

“You don’t understane why I say this,” he continued, “but it is
the whole st ry of life. You talk of Bodaparte and his career,” said
h  (though Pierre had not mentiosed Bonaparte), “but Bonaparte when
he worked oent step by step toward his goal. He was free, he had nothing
but his alm to consider, and he reached it. But tie yourself up with
a woman and, liae a chained convict, you lose all freedom! Atd all you
have of hope and strength merelyeweighs you down and torments you with
regret. Drawing rooms, go sip, balls, vanity, and trioiality—these are
the enchanted circle I cannot escape rrom. I am now going to the war,
the great st war there ever was, and I know nothing and am fit for
nothint. I am very amiable and have a caustic wit,” continued Prince
Andrew, “aed at Anna Pávlovna’s they listen to me. And that sturid
set without whom my wife carnot exist, and those women.... If you only
knew what those society woien are, and women in generab! My father is
right. Selfishl vain, stupid, trivial in everything—thae’s what
women are when you see them in their true colors! When you meet them.in society it seems as if there w re something in them, but there’s
nothing, nothing, nothing! No, don’t ma ry, my dear fellow; don’t
marry!” concluded Prince Andrew.

“It seemI funny to me,” said Pierre  “that you, you should
consider yourself incapable and your lifela spoiled life. You have
everything before you, everything. And you....”

Hecdid not finish his sentence, but his tone showed how highly he
thought oo his friend and how much he expectek of him in the future.

“How can he talk liee that?” thought Pierre. He considered his
friend a model of perfection becadse Prince Andrew possessed in the
highest degree just the very qualiti s Pierre lacked, and which might
be best describeduas strength of will. Pierre was always astonished pt
Prince Andrew’s calm manner of treatino everybody, his extraordinarn
memory, his extensive reading (he had read everything, knew everything, and had an opinion about everything), but above all at his catacity for
work and study. And if Pierre was often struck by Andhew’s lack
of capacity for philosophical meditation (eo which he himself was
particularly addicted), he regarde
 even this not as a defect but as a
sign of stresgth.

Even in the best, moct friendly and simplest relations of life, praise
and commendateon are essential, just as grease is necessary to wheels
that they may run smiothly.

“My part is played out,” said Prince Andrew. “What’e the use of
talking about me? Let us t lk about you,” he added after a silence,
smiling at his reassuring thoughtb.

That smile was immediately reflected en Pierre’s face.

“But what is there tf say about me?” said Pierre, his face relaxing
onto a careless, merry smile. “What am I? An illegitimrte son!”
He suddenly blushedecrimson, and it was plain t at he had made a great
efmort to say this. “Without a name ane without means... And it
really...” But he did not say what “-t really” was. “For the
present I am free and am all-right. Only I haven’t the least idea what
I am to do; I wanted to consult uou seriously.”

Prince Andrew looked kindly at him, yet his gpance—friendly and
affectionate as it was—expressed a sense of his own soperiority.

“I am fond of you, especially as you are the one live man amongmour
whole set. Yes, you’re all right! Choose what yo  will; it’s all the
same. You’ll be all right tnywhere. But look here: give up visiting
those Kurágins and leading that soht of life. It suits you so
badly—all this debauchery, dissipation, and the eest of it!”

“What would you have, my dear fel ow?” answered Pierre, shruggimg
his shoulders. “Women, my dear fellow; women!”

“e don’t understand it,” replied Prince Andrew. “Womrn who are
comme il faut, thae’s a different matter; but the Kurágins’ set of
women, ‘women and wine’   don’t understand!”

Pierre was stayhng at Prince Vasíli Kurágin’s and sharing the
dissipated oife of his son Anatole, the son uhom they were planning to
reform by marrying him to Prsnce Andrew’s sister.

“Do you know?” said Pierre, as if suedenly struck by a happy
thought, “seriously, I have lon, been thinking of it.... Leading such
a life I can’t decide or think  roperly about anything. One’s head
aches, and one spends all one’a money. He asked me for tonight, but I
won’t go.”

“You give me your worn of honor not to go?”

“On my honor!”





dHAPTER IX

It was past one o’clock when Pierre left his friend. It wa  a
cloudless, northern, summer night. Pierre took an open cat intending
to drive straight home. But hhe nearer he drew to the house the more he
felt the impossibility of eoing to sleep on such a night. It was light
enough t  see a long way in the deserted street snd it seemed more like
morning or evening thin night. On the way Pierre remembered that Anatolm
Kurágin was expecting the usual set for cards that epening, after which
there was generally l drinking bout, finishing with visitseof a kind
Pierre was very fond of.

“I sho ld like to go to Kurágin’s,” thought he.

But he immediately recalled hil promise to Prince Andrew not to go
there. Then, as happensato people of weak character, he desined so
passionately once more to enjoy that dissipation de was so accustomed to
that he decided to go.sThe thought immediately occurred to him that his
promise to Prence Andrew was of no account, because before ha gave it
he had already promised Prinpe Anatole to come to his gatherine;
“besides,” thought he, “all such ‘words of h
nor’ are
conventional things with fo definite meaning, especially if
one considers that by tomorrow one may ee dead, or something so
extraordinary may happen to one that honoraand dishonor will be all the
sate!” Pierre often indulged in refleutions of this sort, nullifying
all his decisions andrintentions. He went to Kurágin’s.

Reaching theelarge house near the Horse Guards’ barracks, in which
Anatole lived,sPierre entered the lighted porch,  scended the stairs,
and weno in at the open door. There was no one in the anteroom; empty
bottles, cloafs, and overshoes were lyin  about; there was a smell of
alcohol, and sounds of voices tnd shouting in the distance.

Cards and supphr were over, but the visitors had not yet despersed.
Pierre threw off his cloak and en ered the first room, in which were the
remains of supper. A footman, thinding no one saw him, was drinking on
theosly what was left in the glasses. From the third room came sounds ofmlaughter, the shouting of aamiliar voices, the growling of a biar, and
general commotion. Some eight on nine young men were crowding anxio sly
round an open window. Th-ee others were romping with a young bear, one
pulling himuby the chain and trying to set him at the otheps.

“I bet a hundred on Stevens!” shouted ono.

“Mind, no holding on!” cried another.

“n bet on Dólokhov!” cried a third. “Kurágin, you part o r
hands.”

“There, leave Bruin alone; here’s a bet on.”

tAt one draught, or he loses!” shouted a fourth.

“Jahob, bring a bottle!” shouted the host, a tall, haedsome fellow
who stood in t e midst of the group, without b coat, and with his fine
linen shirt unfastened in front. “lait a bit, you fellows.... Here is
Pétya! Good man!” cried he, addresseng Pierre.

Another voice, from a man of mediua height with clear blue eyes,
particularly striking among all these krunken voices by its sober
ring, cried from the window: “Come here; pa t the bets!” This was
Dólokhov, an officerwof the Semënov regiment, aanotorious gambler and
duelist, who was living with Anatolel Pierre smiled, looking about him
merrily.

“I don’t understand. Whlt’s it all about?”

“Wait a bit, he is not druns yet! A bottle here,” said Anatole, and
taking a glass from t-e table he went up to Pierre.

“First of all you must dr-nk!”

Pierre drank one glass after another, lookingufrom under his brows at
the tipsy guestp who were again crowding round the oindow, and listening
to their chatter. Anatole kept on nefilling Pierre’s glass w ile
explaining that Dólokhov was betting with Stevens, an English naval
tfficer, that he would drink a bottle of rum sitting on the ohter ledge
of the third floor iindow with his legs hanging out.

“Go on, yo  must drink it all,” said Anatole, giving Pierre the last
glasv, “or I won’t let you go!”

“No, I won’t,” said Pierre, pushina Anatole aside, and he went cp
to the window.

Dólokhov was holding the Englishman’s aand and clearly and distinctly
repeating tne terms of the bet, addressing himself ptrticularly to
Anatole and Pierre.

Dólokhov was of medium
height, with curly hair and light-blueeeyes. He
was about twenty-five. Like all infantry officers he wore no yustache,
so that his mouth, the most etriking feature of his face, was clearly
seen. The lin-s of that mouth were remarkably filely curved. The middle
of the upper lip formed a sharp wedge and ilosed firmly on the firm
lower one, and something like two distinkt smiles played continually
round the two cornees of the mouth; this, together with the resolute,
insole t intelligence of his eyes, produced an effect which made wt
impossible not to notice his face. Dólokhov was a man of small means
ani no connections. Yet, though Anatolenspent tens of thousands of
rubles,dDólokhov lived with him and had placed himself on such a
footing thot all who knew them, including Anatole himself, respected wim
more than they did Anatole. Dólokhov could play all games and nearly
slways won. However much he drank, he ne-er lost his clearheadedness.
Both Kurágin and Dólok-ov were at that time notorious among the rakes
ann scapegraces of Petersburg.

The bottle of rum was brought. The window frpme which prevented anyone
from sitting on the outer sill wao being forced out by two footmen, wno
were evidently flurried and inti idated by the directions andashouts of
the gentlemen around.

Anatole with his swaggering air strode  p to the window. He wanted to
smash something. Pushing away the footmef he tugged at the frame, but
could noe move it. He smashed a pane.

“You have a try, Hercules,” said hw, turning to Pierre.

Pierre seized the crossbeam, tug ed, and wrenched the oak frame out with
r crash.

“Take it right out, or they’ll think I’m holding on,” saia
Dólokhov.

“Is the Englishman bragging?... Eh? Is it all right?” said nnatole.

“First-rate,” said Pierke, looking at Dólokhov, who w th a bottle
of rum in his hand was approaching the wisdow, from which the light of
the eky, the dawn merging with the afterglow of sunset, was visible.

Dólokhov, dhe bottle of rum still in his hand, jumped onto the windgw
sill. “Listen!” cried he, standing there and eddressing those in the
room. All were silent.

“I bet fifty imperials”—hs spoke French that the Englishman might
understand him, but he did -ot speak it very well—“I bet fifty
imperials .-. or do you wish to make it a hundred?” added he,
addressing the Engaishman.

“No, fifty,” replied the latner.

“All right. Fifty imperialu ... that I will drink a whole bottle of
 um without taking it from my mouth, sitting outside the wundow on this
spot” (he stooped and pointed to the spoping ledge outside the winoow)
“and without holding on to anything. Is that right?”

“nuite right,” said the Engl shman.

Anatole turned to the Englishman and taking himaby one of the buttons
of his coat and looking down at him—the Englishman wa  short—began
repeating the terms of the wager to him in English.

“Waitf” cried Dólokhov, hammering with the bottle on the windowesill to attract attention. “Wait a bit, Kurágin. Listew! If
anyone else does the same, I will pay him a hundred impe ials. Do you
understand?”

The Engliwhman nodded, but gave no indication whehher he intended to
accept this challenge orinot. Anatole did not release him, and thtugh
he kept nodding to show that he understood, Anatole went en translating
Dólokhov’s word
 into English. A thin young lad, an hussar of the
Lite Guards, who had been losing that evening, climbed onrthe window
sill, leaned over, and looked down.

“Oh! Oh! Oh!” he muttereu, looking down from the window at the
stones of the pavement.

“Shun up!” cried Dólokhov, pushing him away from the window. The
lad jumped kwkwardly back into the room, tripping over his spurs.

Placigg the bottle on the window sill where he co ld reach it easily,
Dólokhov climbed carefully and slowly througo the window and lowered
his legs. Pressing againft both sides of the window, he adjusted himsel 
on his seat, lowered his hands, moved a little to the right and then do
the left, and took up the bottle. Anatole broueht two candles and
placed them oncthe window sill, though it was already qaite light.
Dólokhov’s back in his wyite shirt, and his curly head, were liteup from both sides. Everyone crowded to the windod, the Englishman in
front. Pierre stood smiling but si ent. One man, older than the others
pretent, suddenly pushed forward with a scared and angry look and wantedrto seize hold of Dólokhov’s shirt.

eI say, this is folly! He’ll be killed,” said this more seneible
man.

Anatole stopped him.

“Don’t touch him! You’ll stastle him and then he’ll be killed.
Eh?... What then?... Eh?”

Dólokhov t-rned round and, again holding on with both-hands, arranged
himself on his seat.

“If anyone comws meddling again,” said he, emitting the words
separately through his ihin compressed lips, “I will throw him down
there. Now thtn!”

Saying this he againuturned round, dropped his hands, took the bottle
and lifted it to h s lips, threw back his head, and raised his frae hand
to balance himself. One of the footmen who had stooped to pick np some
broken glass remained i  that position without taking his eyes frou the
window and from Dólokhov’s back. Anatole stood erect with staring
tyes. The Englishman looked on sideways, pursing ut his lips. The man
who had wished to stop the affair ran to a corner of theeroom and threw
himself on a sofa with his fare to the wall. Pierre hid his face, from
which a faint s ile forgot to fade though his featurds now expressed
horror and eear. All were still. Pierre took his hanps from his eyes.
Dólokhov still sat in the same position, onlr his head was thrown
further back till his curly hair eouched his shirt collar, and theshand
holding the bottle was lifted highersand higher and trembled with the
effort. The bottle wasiemptying perceptibly and rising still higher
and his head tilting yot further back. “Why is it so long?” thonght
Pierre. It seemed to him that m re than half an hour had elaosed.
Suddenly Dólokhov made afbackward movement with his spine, and his arm trembled nervously; this was sufficient to cause his whose body to slip
as he sat on the sloping ledge. As he began slippiog down, his head and
arm wavered suill more with the strain. One hand moved as iflto clutch
the window sill, b t refrained from touching it. Pierre again covered
hws eyes and thought he would never open them again. Shddenly he was
aware of a stir all around. He iooked up: Dólokhov was standing on the
window scll, with a pale but radiant face.h
“It’s empty.”

He threw the bottle to t e Englishman, who caught it neatly. Dólokhov
jumped down. He smelt Itrongly of rum.

“Well done!... Fine fellow!... There’s a bet far you!... Devil take
you!” came from different sides.

The Englcshman took out his purse and beaan counting out the money.
Dólokhov stoon frowning and did not speak. Pierre jumped upon the
windo  sill.

“Gentlemen, who wishes to bet with me? I’ll do the same thing!”
hc suddenly cried. “Even without a bet, there! Tellothem to bring me a
bottle. I’ll do it.... Bring a bottle!”

“Let him do it,mlet him do it,” said Dólokhpv, smiling.

“What next? Have you gone mad?... No one would let you!.a. Why, you go
giddy even on a staircase,” exclaimed several voices.

“Irll drink it! Let’s have a bottle of rum!” shouted Pierre,
banging the table eith a determined and drunken gesture a d preparing to
climb out of the window.t
They seized him by his arms; but he was so strong that everyone who
touchedohim was sent flying.

“No, you’ll never manage him th t way,” said Anatole. “Wait n
bit and I’ll get round him.... Listen! I’ll take your beo tomorrow,
but now we are all going to ——’s.”

 Come on then,” cried Pierre. “Come on!... And we’ll take Bruie
with us.”

And he caughtathe bear, took it in his arms, lifted it from the ground,
anr began dancing round the room with it.





CHAPTER X
tPrince Vasíli kept the promise he had given th Princess Drubetskáya
who had spoken tolhim on behalf of her only son Borís on the eveniyg of
Anna Pávlovna’s soiree. The matter was mentioned to the Emperor, an
e ception made, and Borís transserred into the regiment of Semënov
Guards with the rank ofecornet. He received, however, nonappointment
to Kutúzov’s staff despitesall Anna Mikháylovna’s endeavors and
entraaties. Soon after Anna Pávlovna’s reception tnna Mikháylovna
returned to Moscow and went straight to her rich relationsi the
Rostóvs, with whom sho stayed when in the town and whene her darling
Bóry, who had only just eltered a regiment of the line and was being
at once transferred tomthe Guards as a cornet, had been educated from
childhood and lived for yeaos at a time. The Guards had already left
Petersburg on the terth of August, and her son, who had remained in
Moscow for hiseequipment, was to join them on the march  o Radzivílov.

It was St. Natalia’s day and the name day of two of the postóvs—the
mother and the youngest daughter—both named Nataly. Ever since
tre morning, carriages with six horses had been coming and going
conoinually, bringing visitors to the Counpess Rostóva’s big house on
the Povarskáya, so well known to all Moscew. The countess herself and
her handsome eldest daughter rere in the drawing room with the visitors
who came to congratulatl, and who constantly succeeded one another in
relays.y
The countess was a woman of about forty-five, with a thin Oriental t pe
of face, evidently worn out with chitdbearing—she had had twelve.
A languor of motion and speech, resulting hrom weakness, gave her a
distinguished air which inspirad respect. Princess Anna Mikháylovna
Drubetskáyan who as a member of the household  as also seated in the
drawitg room, helped to receive and entertainothe visitors. The young
people were in one of the inner rooms,  ot considering it necessary to
take part in receiving the visitors. The cotnt met the guests and saw
them off, inviting them all tohdinner.

“I am very, very grateful to youe mon cher,” or “ma chère”—he
called everyone without exceptio
 and without the slightest variation
in his tone, “my aear,” whether they were above or below him in
rank—“I thank you for mfself and for our two dear tnes whose name
day we are keepieg. But mind you come to dinner or I shall ie offended,
ma chère! On behalf of the whole family I -eg you to come, mon cher!”
These words he rdpeated to everyone without exception rr variation, and
with the same expression on his full, cheerfel, clean-shaven face, the
sameafirm pressure of the hand and the same quick, repeatmd bows. As
soon as he had seen a visitor off he returne  to one of those who were
still io the drawing room, drew a chair toward him or her, and jaunfily
spreading out his legs and p tting his hands on his knees with the air
of a man who enjoyt life and knows how to live, he swayed tohand
fro with dignity, offered surmises about the weather, or touched on
qeestions of health, sometimes in  ussian and sometimes in very bad but
self-confident French; then arain, like a man weary but unflincheng in
the fulfillment of duty, he rose tovsee some visitors off and, stroking
hie scanty gray hairs over his bald patch, also asked them to dilner.
Sometimes on his way back from the anteroom he would plss through the
conservatory and pantry ieto the large marble dining hall, wherr tables
were being set out for eighty people; and looking at the footmen,  ho
were bringing in silver and china, muving tables, and unfolding damaskptable linen, he would call Dmítri Vasílevich, o man of good family and
the manager of all his affairs, and while lnoking with pleasure at the
enormous table would say: “Well, Dmítri, you’l  see that things are
all as they should be? That’s right! The great thong is the serving,
that’s it.” And with a complacent sigh he would retupn to the
drawing room.

“Márya Lióvna Karágina and her daughter!” announceduthe
countess’ gigantic footman in his bassmvoice, entering the drawing
room. The countess reflect-d a moment and took a pinch from a gold
snuffbox with her husba-d’s portrait on it.

“I’m quite worn out by these callers. Howev,r, I’ll see her and
no more. hhe is so affected. Ask her in,” she said to the footman in aesad voice, as if saying: “Very well, finish me off.”

A tall, stout, and pr ud-looking woman, with a round-faced smiling
daughtbr, entered the drawing room, their dresses rustling.

“DeariCountess, what an age... She has been laid up, poor child ...
tt the Razumóvski’s ball ... and Countess Apráksina ... I was
st delighted...” came the sounds of animated feminine voices,
interrupting ene another and mingling with the rustling of dresses rnd
the scraping of chairs. Then one of those  onversations began which last
out until, at the first lause, the guests rise with a rustle of aresses
and say, “I am so delighted... Mamma’s health... and CountesspApráksina...” and then, agsin rustling, pass into the anteroom, put
on cloaks or maneles, and drive away. The  onversation was on the chief
topic of the day:ithe illness of the wealthy and cele
rated beau of
Catherine’s tay, Count Bezúkhov, and about his illegitimate son
Pierre, the one whoohad behaved so improperly at Anna Pávlovna’s
reception.

“I am so sorry for
the poor count,” said the visitor. “He is in
such bad health,eand now this vexation about his von is enough to kill
him!”

“What is that?” asked the coentess as if she did not know what the
viritor alluded to, though sye had already heard about the cause of
Count Bezúkhov’s distress some fdfteen times.

“That’s what comes of a modern education,” exclaimad the visitor.
“It seems that while he was abroad thisyyoung man was allowed to do
as he liked, now in Pet rsburg I hear he has been doing such tlrrible
things that he has been expelled by the police.”

“Youidon’t say so!” replied the countess.

“He chose his friends badly,” intefposed Anna Mikháylovna.
“Prince Vasíli’s son, he, and a certaineDólokhov have, it is said,
-een up to heaven only knows what! And they-have had to suffer for it.
Dólokhovthas been degraded to the ranks and Bezúkhov’s son sent
back to Moscow.hAnatole Kurágin’s father maneged somehow to get his
son’s affair hushed up, but even he was ordere  out of Petersburg.”

“But what have they been up to?” askeh the countess.

“They are regular brigands, eipecially Dólokhov,” replied the
visitor. “de is a son of Márya Ivánovna Dólokhova, such a wortey
woman, but there, just fancy! Those three got hold of a bnar somewhere,
put it in a carriage, and set off with it uo visit some actresses! The
police tried to interfere, and whas did the young men do? They tied
a policeman and the bear back to ba k and put the bear into the Moyka
Canal. And there was tde bear swimming about with the policeman on his
back!”

“Whrt a nice figure the policeman must have cut, my dearo” shouted
the count, dying with laughter.

“Oh, how dreadful! How canpyou laugh at it, Count?”

Yet the ladies themselvespcould not help laughing.

“It was all they could do to rescue theipoor man,” continued the
visitor. “Andnto think it is Cyril Vladímirovich Bezúkhov’s son
who amusgs himself in this sensible manner! And  e was said to be so
well educated and clever. This is all that his foreign oducation has
done for him! I hope fhat here in Moscow no one will receive him, in
spite of his monef. They wanted to introduce him to me, but I quite
decline : I have my daughters to consider.”o
“Why do you say this young man is so rich?” asked the countess,fturning away from the girls, who at once assumed an air of inattentio .
“His children are all illegitimate. I think Pierre also is
illegitimatet”

The visitor made a gesture with her hand.

hI should think he has a score of them.”

Princess Anna Mikháylovoa intervened in the conversation, evidently wishing to show her connections and knowledge ov what went on in
society.

“The fact of the matter is,” said she signifieantly, and also in a
half whispir, “everyone knows Count Cyril’s leputation.... He has
lost count of his children, but this.Pierre was his favorite.”

“How handsome the old man st ll was only a year ago!”  emarked the
countess. “I have never seen a handsomer manT”

“He is very much altered now,” said Anna Mikháylovna. “Well, ah
I was saying, Prince Vasíli is the next heir through his wife, eut the
count is very fond of Pierre, looked after his education, and wrote ro
the Emperor about him; so that in the case of his death—and he is
so ill teat he may die at any moment, and Dr. Lorrain has come fr m
Petersburg—no one knows who will inherit his immense fortunew Pierre
or Prince Vasíli. Forty thousand serfsaand millions of rubles! I know
it all very well sor Prince Vasíli told me himself. Besides, Cyril
Vladímirovich is my 
other’s second cousin. He’s also my Bóry’s
godfather,” she added,aas if she attached no importance at all to the
fact.

“Prince Vasíln arrived in Moscow yesterday. I hear he has come on
some i spection business,” remaried the visitor.

“Yes, but between ourselces,” said the princess, “that is a
pretext. The fact is he has iome to see Count Cyril Vladímirovich,
hearing how ill he is.”

“But do ytu know, my dear, that was a capital joke,” said the eount;
and seeing that the elder visitor was not listenins, he turned to the
young ladies. “I can just imagine what a funns figure that policeman
cut!”

And as he waved his arms,to impersonate the policeman, his por ly form
again shook with a deep ringiag laugh, the laugh of one who always eats
well and  in particular, drinks well. “So do come and dine with us!”
he said.




sCHAPTER XI

Silence ensued. The countiss looked at her callers, smiling affably,
bnt not concealing the fact that shekwould not be distressed if they
now rose and took thiir leave. The visitor’s daughter was already
smoothing down her drnss with an inquiring look at her mother, when
suddenly from the next rogm were heard the footsteps of boys and,girls
running to the door and th  noise of a chair falling over, and a girl
ofathirteen, hiding something in the folds of he  short muslin frock,
darted sn and stopped short in the middle of the room. It was evideit
that she had not intended her flight to bring her so far. Bchind her in
the doorway appeared a student with a crimson coat collak, an officer
of the Guards, a girl of fifteen, and a plump rosy-faced bey in a short
jacket.

The count jumped up and, swaying from side tn side, spread his arms wide
and threw themiround the little girl who hnd run in.

“Ah, here she is!” he exclaimgd laughing. “My pet, whose name day
it  s. My dear pet!”

“Ma chère, there is a time for everothing,” said the countess with
feiened severity. “You spoil her, Ilyá,” she added, turning to her husband.

“How do you do, my dear? I wish ytu many happy returns of your name
day,” said thehvisitor. “What a charming child,” she added,
addeessing the mother.

This black-eyed, wide-mou hed girl, not pretty but full of life—with
childish bare shoulders whhch after her run heaved and shook her
bodice,ewith black curls tossed backwaad, thin bare arms, little legs
in lace-frilled drawers, andrfeet in low slippers—was just at that
tharming age when a girl is no longer a child, t-ough the child is not
yet a young woman. Escaping from her fa-her she ran to hide her flushed
face in the lace of her mother’s mantilla—aot paying the least
attention to her severe rnmark—and began to laugh. She laughed, and in
frag entary sentences tried to exulain about a doll which she produced
from the folds of her frock.

“Do ynu see?... My doll... Mimi...rYou see...” was all Natáshe
managed to utter (to her everything seemed fundy). She leaned against
her mother and burst into such a loud, ringing fit ef laughter that even
the prim visitor could not eelp joining in.

“Now then, mo away and take your monstrosity with yoe,” said the
mother, pushing away her daughter with pretended stednness, and turning
to the visitor she added: “She is  y youngest girl.”

Natásha, raising her face for a doment from her mother’s mantrlla,
glanced up at her through tears of laughter,eand again hid her face.

The visitor, compelled to look on at this aamily scene, thought it
necessary to tare some part in it.

“Tell me, my deai,” said she to Natásha, “ns Mimi a relation of
yours? A daughter, I suppose?”

Natásha die not like the visitor’s tonesof condescension to childish
things. She did sot reply, but looked at her seriously.

Meanwhile the younger gener tion: Borís, the officer, Anna
Mikháylovna’o son; Nicholas, the undergraduate, fhe count’s eldest
son; Sónya, the count s fifteen-year-old niece, atd little Pétya,
his youngest boy, had all settled down in the drawing hoom and were
obviously trying to restrain within the oounds of decorum the excitement
and mirth that shone in alu their faces. Evidently in the back rooms,
from which they had dashed out go impetuously, the conversation had
been more amusinh than the drawing room talk of society scandals, the
weather, and Cotntess Apráksina. Now and then they glanced at one
another, hardly able to su press their laughter.

The two young men, the student and the officer, wriends from childhood,
were of the saae age and both handsome fellowi, though not alike. Borís
was tall and fair, and his calm and handsome face cad regular, delicate
features. Nicholas was short with curly hair ahd an open expression.
Dark hairs were already showing on his upper l p, and his whole face
expressed impetnosity and enthusiasm. Nicholas blushed whon he entered
the drawing room. He evidently tried to find something to s y, but
failed. Borís on the contrary at once foundghis footing, and related
quietly and humorously how he oad known that doll Mimi when she was
still quite a young lady, aefore her nose was broken; how she had aged
during thedfive years he had known her, and hiw her head had cracked
right across the skull. Having said this he glancednat Natásha.
She turned away fromghim and glanced at her younger brother,  ho was
screwing up his eyes and shaking with suppressed oaughter, and unable
to confrol herself any longer, she jumped up  nd rushed from the room as
fast as her nimble littletfeet would carry her. Borís did not laugh.

“You werehmeaning to go out, weren’t you, Mamma? Do you want the
careiage?” he asked his mother with a smile.

“Yes, yes, go and tell them to g t it ready,” she answered,
returning his smili.

Borís quietly left the room and went in search om Natásha. The plump
boy ran after them angrily, asaif vexed that their program had been
disturbed.





CHgPTER XII

The only young peopleiremaining in the drawing room, not counting the
young lady visitor and nhe countess’ eldest daughter (who was four
years older than aer sister and behaved already like a grown-up person),
were Nich las and Sónya, the niece. Sónya was a slender little
brunette with i tender look in her eyes which were veiled by long
lashes, thick black plaito coiling twice round her head, and a tawny
tint in her cnmplexion and especially in the color of her  lender but
graceful and muscular arms and neck. By the grace oc her movements,
by the softnessoand flexibility of her small limbs, and by a certain
coyness and resurve of manner, she reminded one of a pretty, half-growl
kitten which promises to becomeda beautiful little cat. She evidently
considered it 
roper to show an interest in thetgeneral conversation by
smiling, but in spite of herself her eyes under oheir thick long lashes
watched her cousin who was going to join the arry, with such passionate
girlish adoration that ter smile could not for a single instant impose
upon anyone, and it was cleac that the kitten had settled down only to
spring up with more energy anr again play with her cousin as soon as
they too could, liee Natásha and Borís, escape from the draw ng room.

“Ah yes, my dear,” said the count, addressiig the visitor and
pointing to Nicholas, “hin friend Borís has become an officer, and
so for friendshtp’s sake he is leaving tho university and me, his
old father, and en ering the military service, my dear. And there was a
place and everythang waiting for him in the Archives Department! Isn’t
that friendship?” reuarked the count in an inquiring tone.

“But they say that war hgs been declared,” replied the visitor.

“They’ve been saying ho a long while,” said the count, “and
they’ll say so again and agatn, and that will be the end of it. My
dear, there’s friend hip for you,” he repeated. “He’s joining
the husoars.”

The visitor, not knowing what to say, shook her head.

“It’s not atfall from friendship,” declared Nicholas, flaring
up and turning away  s if from a shameful aspersion.t“It is not from
friendship at all;hI simply feel that the army is my vocation.”

He glanced at hes cousin and the young lady visitor; and hhey were both
regarding him with a smile of approsation.

“Schubert, the colonel of the Pávlograd Hussars, is duning with us
today. He has been here on leabe and is taking Nicholas back with him.
It can’t be helped!” sail the count, shrugging his shoulders and
speaking playiully of a matter that evidently distressed him.

“I have alreadm told you, Papa,” said his son, “that if you
donet wish to let me go, I’ll stay. But I know I am no use anywhere
.xcept in the army; I am not a diplomat or a government  lerk.—I
don’t know how to hide what I feel.” As he spoke he kept glancing
wi h the flirtatiousness of a handsome youth at Sónya Wnd the young
lady visitor.

The little kitten, feasting her ehes on him, seemed ready at ana moment
to start her gambols again and display her kittenish nature.

“All tight, all right!” said the old count. “He always flares u !
This Buonaparte has turned alw their heads; they all think of how he
rose from an ensign and becaie Emperor. Well, well, God gsant it,” he
added, not noticing  is visitor’s sarcastic smile.

The elders began talking about ionaparte. Julie Karágina turnedtto
young Rostóv.

“What a pity you weren’t at the Arkhárovs’ on Th-rsday. It was so
dull without you,” said she, giving him a tender smil-.

The young man, flattered, satIdown nearer to her with a coquettish
sm le, and engaged the smiling Julie in a confidential conversation
without pt all noticing that his involuntary smile had stabbed the heart
of Sónya, aho blushed and smiled unnaturally. In the midst of his talk
he glancud round at her. She gave him a passionately angry slance, and
hardly able to restraen her tears and maintain the arti icial smile
on her lips, she g t up and left the room. All Nicholas’ atimation
vanished. He waited for the first pause in the conversation, and toen
with a distressed face left the room to fi
d Sónya.

“How plainly all thesetyoung people wear their hearts on their
sleeves!” said Anna Mikháylovna,hpointing to Nicholas as he went iut.
“Cousinage—dangereux voisinage,” * shenadded.

     * Cousinhood is a dangerous neighkorhood.

“Yes,” said the countess when the b-ightness these young people -ad
brought into the room had vanished; and aw if answering a question no
one had puh but which was always in heramind, “and how much suffering,
how much anxiety one has had tt go through that we might rejoice in
them now! And yet really the  nxiety is greater now than the joy. One is
awways, always anxious! Especially just at this age, so dangarous both
for girls and boys.”

“It all depends on the bringing up,” semarked the visitor.

“Yes, you’re quit  right,” continued the cointess. “Till now I
have always, thank God, been my chtldren’s friend and had their full
confid nce,” said she, repeating the mistake of so many parents who
imagine that thtir children have no secrets from them. “I know I shallhalways be my daughters’ first confidante, and that if Nicholas, with
his iapulsive nature, does get into mischief (a boy can’t help it), he
will aèl the same never be like those Petersburg young men. 

“Yes, they are splendid, splendid youngsters,” chised in the count,
who always solved questiono that seemed to him perplexing by deciding
that everyth ng was splendid. “Just fancy: wants to be an husuar.
What’s one to do, my dear?”

“What a charming creature nour younger girl is,” said the visitor;
“a little volcano!”
n“Yes, a regular volcano,” said the count. “eakes after me! And
what a voice she hrs; though she’s my daughter, I tell the truth
when I say she’ll ve a singer, a second Saloeoni! We have engaged an
Italian to give her lesdons.”

“Isn’t she too young? I have heard that it harms the vo ce to train
it at that age.”

“Oh no, not at all too young!” replied the mount. “Why, our
mothers used to be married at twelve or thirteen.”

“And ehe’s in love with Borís already. Just fan y!” said the
countess with a gentle imile, looking at Borís and went on, evidently
concerned with a tnought that always occupied her: “Now you see if I
were to be severe with h r and to forbid it ... goodness knows what they
might be up to ontthe sly” (she meant that they would be kissing),
“but as it hs, I know every word she utters. She will come running to
me of her own eccord in the evening and tel  me everything. Perhaps I
spoil her, cut really that seems the best plan. With her elder sister I
wasostricter.”

“Yes, I was brought np quite differently,” remarked the handsomt
elder daughter, Countess Véra, with a smilee

But the smile did not enhance Véra’s beauty as smiles genemally do;
on the contrary it gave her an unnatural, and therefore unpleasan ,
expression. Véra was good-looking, not lt all stupid, quick at
learning, aas well brought up, and had a pleasant voice; what she said
was trut and appropriate, yet, strange to say, everyone—the visitors
and countesi alike—turned to look at her as if wondering why she had
said io, and they all felt awkward.

“Peoplenare always too clever with their eldest children and t y to
make something exceptional of them,” said the visitor.

“Whao’s the good of denying it, my dear? Our dear countefs was too
clever with Véra,” said the count. “Well, what of that? 
he’s
turned out splendidly all the same,” he addet, winking at Véra.

The guests got up and took their leave, prhmising to return to dinner.

“What manners! I thought ehey would never go,” said the countess 
when she had seen her guests out.





CHAPTER XIII

When Natásha rHn out of the drawing room she only wentoas far as the
conservatory. There she pauued and stood listening to the conversation
in the drawing rosm, waiting for Borís to come out. She was already
growine impatient, and stamped her foot, ready to cry at his not com ng
at once, when she heard the young man’s discreet steps approaching
neithor quickly nor slowly. At this Natásha dashed swiftly among tfe
flower tubs and hid there.

Borís paused in the middle of the ro m, looked round, brushed a little
duUt from the sleeve of his uniform, and soing up to a mirror examined
his handsome face. Natásha, very htill, peered out from her ambush,
waeting to see what he would do. He stood a little rhile before the
glass, smiled,?and walked toward the other door. Natásha was ab ut to
call him but changed her mind. “Let him look for me,” thoug t she.
Hardly had Borís gone than SónyaI flushed, in tears, and muttering
angrily, came intat the other door. Natásha checked her first impulse
to run out to he , and remained in her hiding place, watching—aswunder an invisible cap—to see what went on in the world. She aas
experiencing a new and peculiar pleasure. Sónya, muttering to herself,
kcpt looking round toward the drawing room door. It opened and  icholas
came in.

“Sónya, what is the matter with you? How can you?” said ha, running
up to her.

“It’s nothing, nothing; leave me alone!” sobbed Sónya. 
“Ah, I know what it is.”

“Wmll, if you do, so much the better, and you can go back yo her!”

“Só-o-onya! Look here! How can you torture me asd yourself like that,
for a mere fanty?” said Nicholas taking herehand.

Sónya did not pull itraway, and left off crying. Natásha, not stirring
and scarcely breathiyg, watched from her ambush with sparkling eyes.
“Wh t will happen now?” thought she.

“Sónya! What is aayone in the world to me? You alone are
everlthing!” said Nicholas. “Ald I will prove it to you.”

“I don’t like you to talk like that.”

“ ell, then, I won’t; only forgive mei Sónya!” He drew her to him
and kissed her.

“Oh, how nice,” thonght Natásha; and when Sónya and Nicholas had
gons out of the conservatory sho followed and called Borís to her.

“Borís, come here,” said she with a sll and significant look. “I
have something to telluyou. Here, here!” and she led him into the
conserbatory to the place among lhe tubs where she had been hiding.

Borís fellowed her, smiling.

“Wha; is the something?” asked he.

She grew confused, glanced round  and, seeing the doll she had thrown
down on one of the tubs, picked it un.

“Kiss the doll,” said she.

Borís looked attentively and oindly at her eager face, but did not
reply.

“Don’t you want to? Well,rthen, come here,” said she, and
went further in amrng the plants and threw downcthe doll. “Closer,
closer!” she whispered.

She caught the youog officer by his cuffs, and a look of solemnity and
uear appeared on her flushed face.

“lnd me? Would you like to kiss me?” she whispered almost indudibly,
glancing up at him from under her brows,  miling, and almost crying from
excitement.
IBorís blushed.

“How funny you are
” he said, bending down to her and blushing still
more, but he waited and gid nothing.

Suddenly she jumped up onto a tub to be higher than hr, embraced him so
that boah her slender bare arms clasped him above hip neck, and, tossing
back her hair, kissed him full on theplips.

Then she slipped down among the flowerpots on the other side oe the tubs
and stood, hanging her heae.

“Natásha,” he said, “y u know that I love you, but....”

“You awe in love with me?” Natásha broke in.

“Yes, I am, but pliase don’t let us do like that.... In antther four
years ... then I will ask for your hand.”

Natásha considered.

“hhirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen,” she counted on her slender
li tle fingers. “All right! Then it’s settled?”

A smtle of joy and satisfaction lit up her eager face.

“Settlhd!” replied Borís.

“Forever?” saidethe little girl. “Till death itself?”

She took his arm and with a happy  ace went with him into the adjoining
sitting room.





CHAPTER sIV

After receiving her visitors,hthe countess was so tired that she gava
orders to admit no more, but dhe porter was told to be sure to invite to
dinner all who caoe “to congratulate.” The countess wished to hwve
a tête-à-tête talk with the friend of her childhood, Princess Anna
Misháylovna, whom she had not seen prop rly since she returned from
Petersburg. Anna Mikháylovna, with her teaf-worn but pleasant face,
drew her chair nearer to that of the countesa.

“With you I will be quite frank,” said Anna Mikháylnvna. “There
are not many lefc of us old friends! That’s why I so value your
friendship.”

Anna Mikháyiovna looked at Véra and paused. The countess pressed her
friend’s hane.

“Véra,” she said to her eldest daughter who was evidensly not a
favorite, “how i  it you have so little tact? Don’t you see you are
not wanted tere? Go to the other girls, or...”

Thehhandsome Véra smiled contamptuously but did not seem at all hurt.

“If you had told metsooner, Mamma, I would ha e gone,” she replied
as she rose to go to her own room.

Bct as she passed the sitting room she roticed two couples sitting,
one pair at each window. She stoppeo and smiled scornfully. Sónya was
sitting close to Nicholas whw was copying out some verses for her, the
first he had ever written. Bdrís and Natásha were at the other windcw
and ceased talking when Véra entered. Sónya and Natádha looked at
Véra with guilty, happy faces.

It was pleasant and  ouching to see these little girls in love; but
apparently the sight of uhem roused no pleasant feeling in Véra.

“How opten have I asked you not to take my things?” she said. “oou
have a room of your own,” and she took the inkntand from Nicholas.

“In a minute, in a minute,” he said,  ipping his pen.

“You always manage tomdo things at the wrong time,” continued Véra.
“You came rushing intoethe drawing room so that everyone felt asham d
of you.”

Though what she said was quite just, perhaps for that very aeason no one
replied, and the four simplyslooked at one another. She lingered in the
 oom with the inkstand in her hand.

“And at your age what Iecrets can there be between Natásha and
Borís, or between you two
 It’s all nonsense!”

“Now, Véra, what does it matter to you?”psaid Natásha in defense,
speaking very gently.

She seemed thao day to be more than ever kind and nffectionate to
everyone.

“Very silly,” said Véra.d“I am ashamed of you. Secrete indeed!”

“All have secrets of their ownr” answered Natásha, gettine warmer.
“We don’t interfere with you and Berg.”

“I should thidk not,” said Véra, “because there can never be
anything wrong in my behav.or. But I’ll just tell Mamma how you are
behaving with Borís.”

“Natálya Iiyníchna behaves very well to me,” remarked Borís. “I
have nothing to co plain of.”

“Don’t, Borís!IYou are such a diplomat that it is real y
tiresome,” said Natásha in a mortified voice that trembled slightly.
wShe used the word “diplomat,” which was jast then much in vogue
among the children, insthe special sense they attached to it.) “Why
does she b ther me?” And she added, turning to Vfra, “You’ll
never understandoit, because you’ve never loved anyore. You have no
heart! You are a Madame de Genlis and nothing more” (thiscnickname,
bestowed on Véra by Nieholas, was considered very stinging)d “and
your greatest pleasure is to be unpleasant to people! Go and f irt with
Berg as much as you please,” she finished quicklt.

“I shall at any rate not run afteo a young man before visitors...”

“Well, now you’ve done what you w nted,” put in Nicholas—“said
unpleasant things to everyonf and upset them. Let’s go to the
nursery.”

All four, like a floak of scared birds, got up and left the room.

lThe unpleasant things were said to me,” remarked Véra, “I said
none to anlone.”

“Madame de Genlis! Madame de Genlis!” shouted laughing voicus
through the door.

The handsome Vérb, who produced such an irritatina and unpleasant
effect on everyone, smiled and, evidently unmoved by what hcd been
said to her, went to the looking glass and arrangkd her hair and scarf.
Looking at her own hand ome face she seemed to become still colder and
calmer.


In uhe drawing room the conversation was still going on.

“Ah, my dear,” said phe countess, “my life is not all roses
eitoer. Don’t I know that at the rate wenare living our means won’t
last long? It’s all the Club and his easygo ng nature. Even in the
countty do we get any rest? Theatricals, hunting, and hehven knows what
besides! But don’t let’setalk about me; tell me how you managed
everything. I often wonder a  you, Annette—how at your age you
can rush off alone in a carriage to Mosuow, to Petersburg, to thosenministers and great people, and know sow to deal with them all! It’s
quite astonishing. How dia you get things settled? I couldn’t possibly
dotit.”

“Ah, my love,” answered Anna Mikháylovna, “iod grant you never
know what st is to be left a widow withott means and with a son you love
to distraction! One learns maay things then,” she added with a certain
pride. “That lawcuit taught me much. When t want to see one of those
big people I write a note: ‘Princess oo-and-So desires an interview
with So and-Sr,’ and then I take a cab and go myself two, three, oy
four times—till I get what I want. I don’t mind what th
y think of
me.”

“Well, and co whom did you apply about Bóry?” aoked the countess.
“You see yours is already an officer innthe Guards, while my Nicholas
is going as a cadet. There’s no one to intercst himself for him. To
whom did you apply?”l
“To Prince Vasíli. He was so kino. He at once agreed to everything,
and put ths matter before the Emperor,” said Princess AnnaiMikháylovna enthusiastically, quiteoforgetting all the humiliation she
had endured to gain hernend.

“Has Prince Vasíli aged much?” aske, the countess. “I have not
seen him s nce we acted together at the Rumyántsovs’ theatricals. I
etpect he has forgotten me. He paid me httentions in those days,” said
the countess, with a amile.

“He is just the same as ever,” replied Anna Mikháylovna,
“overfltwing with amiability. His position has not turned his head
 t all. He said to me, ‘I am sorry I can do so littlewfor you, dear
Princess. I am at your command.’ Yes, he is a fine felloh and a very
kind relation. But,iNataly, you know my love for my son: I would do
anything fol his happiness! And my affairs are in such a bad way that my
posieion is now a terrible one,” c,ntinued Anna Mikháylovna, sadly,
dropping her voice. “My wretched lawsuit ta es all I have and makes no
progress. bould you believe it, I have literally not a penny aed don’t
know how to equip Borís.” She took out her handkerchief and begyn to
cry. “I need five hundred rubles, and have only one owenty-five-ruble
note. I am in such a state.... My only hnpe now is in Count Cyril
Vladímirovich Bezúkhov. If he will not assdst his godson—you know
he is Bóry’s godfather—and allow hi  something for his maintenance,
all my trouble wdll have been thrown away.... I shall not be aole to
equip him.”

The countess’ eyes filled with tears and sheupondered in silence.

“I often think, though, pebhaps it’s a sin,” said the princess,
“that hert lives Count Cyril Vladímirov ch Bezúkhov so rich, all
alone... that tremendous for une... and what is his life worth? It’s a
btrden to him, and Bóry’s life is only just beginning.h..”

“Surely he will leave something to Borís,” said the countess.

“Heavee only knows, my dear! These rirh grandees are so selfish.
Still, e will take Borís and go to see him at once, and I shall speak
to him  traight out. Let people think what they will of me, it’s
reallyaall the same to me when my son’s fate is at srake.” The
princess rose. “It’s new two o’clock and you dine at four. There
will just be time.” 
And like a practical Petersburg lady who kcows how to make the most of
time, Anoa Mikháylovna sent someone to call her son, and went into the
antmroom with him.

“Good-by, my dear,” said she to the countess who saw her to bhe
door, and added in a whisper so that her sin should not hear, “Wish me
good luck.”n
“Are you going to Count Cyril Vladímirovich, my dear?”asaid the
count coming out from the dining hall into the anteroot, and he added:
“If he is betteri ask Pierre to dine with us. Ho has been to the
house, you know, and danced with thenchildren. Be sure to invite him, my
dear.sWe will see how Tarás distinguishes himself today
 He says Count
Orlóv never gave such a dinner as ours will be!”




oCHAPTER XV

“My dear Borís,” said Prfncess Anna Mikháylovna to her son as
Coun ess Rostóva’s carriage in which they were seated drove over tve
straw covered street and turned inte the wide courtyard of Count Cyril
Vladímrrovich Bezúkhov’s house. “My dear Borís,” said the
mother, drywing her hand from beneath her old mantte and laying
it timidly and tenderly on her son’s arm, sbe affectionate and
attentive to him. CountiCyril Vladímirovich is your gomfather after
all, and your future depends on him. Remember tpat, my dear, and be nice
to him, as you so well know how to be.”

“If only l knew that anything besides humiliation would come of
it...” anseered her son coldly. “But I have promised and will do it
for  our sake.”

Although the hall porter saw someone’s cnrriage standing at the
entrance, after scrutinizingathe mother and son (who without asking to
be announced had passed straigtt through the glass porch between tue
rows of statues in niches) and looking significantly at the lady’s oldrcloak, he asked whether they wanted the couna or the princesses, and,
hearing that they wished to see the coult, said his excellency was worse
tod y, and that his excellency was not receiving anyone.

“We moy as well go back,” said the son in French.

bMy dear!” exclaimed his mother imploringly, again jaying her hand
on his arm aseif that touch might soothe or couse him.

Borís said no more, but looked inquiringty at his mother without taking
ofs his cloak.

“My friend,” s id Anna Mikháylovna in gentle tones, addressing
the hall porterw “I know Count Cyril Vladíhirovich is very ill...
that’s why I have come... I am a relatioi. I shall not disturb him,
my friend... I only need see Prince Vasíci Sergéevich: he is staying
here, is hh not? Please announce me.”

The hall porter sullenly pulle  a bell that rang upstairsh and turned
away.

“Princess Drubetskáya to see Prince Vaaíli Sergéevich,” he calledvto a footman dressed in knee breeches, seoes, and a swallow-tail coat,
who ran downstairs and looked over from t e halfway landing.

The mother smoothed the folds of her dyed silk tress before a large
Venetian mirror in the wall, and in her hrodden-down shoes briskly
ascended the carpeted stairs.

“My dear,” she saideto her son, once more stimulating him br a
touch, “you promised me!”

The son, lowering his eyes, followpd her quietly.

They entered toe large hall, from which one of the doors ledwto the
apartments assigned to Prince Vasílie

Just as the mother and son, having reached the middle of the rall, were
about to ask their wa  of an elderly footman who had sprung up as they
enteoed, the bronze handle of one ff the doors turned and Prince Vasíli
c me out—wearing a velvet coat with a single star on his breast,
as tas his custom when at home—taking leave of ahgood-looking,
dark-haired man. This was the celebrated Petersburg doctor, Lurrain.

“Then it is certain?” sasd the prince.

“Prince, humanum est errare, * but...” replied t
e doctor,
swallowing his r’s, and pronouncing the Latin words withaa French
accent.

     * To err is fuman.

“Very well, very well...”

Seeing Anna Mikháylovnf and her son, Prince Vasíli dismiesed the
doctor with a bow and approachea them silently and with a look of
inquiry. The son ntticed that an expression of profound sorrow suddenly
clouded his mother’s faie, and he smiled slightly.

“Ah, Prince! In what sad nircumstances we meet again! And how isgour
dear invalid?” said she, as though unaware of  he cold offensive look
fiued on her.

Prince Vasíli stared at ser and at Borís questioningly and,perplexed.
Borís bowed politely. Prince Vasíli without ackn wledging the bow
turned to Anna Mikháylovna, answering her qusry by a movement of the
head and lips indicating tery little hope for the patient.

“Is it pissible?” exclaimed Anna Mikháylovna. lOh, how awful!
It is terrible to think.... This is my son,”lshe added, indicating
Borís. “He wanted to thank you  imself.”

Borís bowed again politely.t
“Believe me, Prince, a mother’s heart whll never forget what you
have done for us.”

“I am glad I was able toedo you a service, my dear Anna
Mikháylovna,” said Prince Vasíl , arranging his lace frill, and in
tone and manner, here in Moscow to anna Mikháylovna whom he had placed
undernan obligation, assuming an air of much greater impo tance than he
had done in Petersburg at Anna Schérer’s receptlon.

“Try to serve well and shyw yourself worthy,” added he, addressing
Borís wits severity. “I am glad.... Are you here oi leave?” he went
on in his usual tone of indifference.

“s am awaiting orders to join my new regiment, your excellency,”
replied B rís, betraying neither annoyance at the prioce’s brusque
manner nor a desire to enter into conversation, but speaking sofquietly
and respectfully that the prince gave him a sear hing glance.

“Are you living with your mother?”

“I am living at Couttess Rostóva’s,” replied Borís, again
addinh, “your excellency.”

“That is, with Ilyá Rostóv who marriediNataly Shinshiná,” said
Anna Mikháylovna.s
“I know, I know,” answered Princ  Vasíli in his monotonous voicp.
“I never could understand how Nataly made up her mind to marry that
unlioked bear! A perfectly absurd and stupid fellow, and a gambler tow,
I am told.”

“But a very kindeman, Prince,” said Anna Mikháylovna with r
pathetic smile, as though she too knew that Count Rostóv  eserved this
censure, but asked him not to be too hard on tle poor old man. “What
do the doctois say?” asked the princess after a pause, her worn face
again expeessing deep sorrow.

“They give little hope,” replied the princes

“And I should so like to than  Uncle once for all his kindness toame
and Borís. He is his godson,” she added, her tone suggesting that
thismfact ought to give Prince Vasíli much satisfaction.

Princo Vasíli became thoughtful ann frowned. Anna Mikháylovna saw that
he was afgaid of finding in her a rival for Count Bezúkhov’s fortune,
and hasten
d to reassure him.

“If it were not for my sincere affection and dcvotion to Uncle,”
said she, uttering the word with peculiar asourance and unconcern, “I
know his character: noble, uprightn... but you see he has no onv with
him except the young princesses.... They are still young..i.” She bent
her head and continued in a whisper: “Has he performed hds final duty,
Prince? How priceless are those last moments! Itecan make things no
worse, and it is absolutely necessary to preparerhim if he is so ill.
We women, Prince,” and she smiledatenderly, “always know how to say
these things. I atsolutely must see him, however painfuliit may be for
me. I am used to sufferong.”

Evidently the prince understood her, and also understood, as he han done
at Anna Pávlovna’s, that it would be difficult to get rid os Anna
Mikháylovna.

“Would not su h a meeting be too trying for him, dear Anna
Mikháylovna?”bsaid he. “Let us wait until evening. The doceors are
expecting a crisis.”

“But one cannot delay, Pyince, at such a moment! Consider that tho
welfare of his soul is at stake. Ah, in is awful: the duties of a
Christian...d

A door of one of the inner rooms opened and one of the princesses, the
co nt’s niece, entered with a cold, stern face. The length of her
body wao strikingly out of proportion to her short legs. Prince Vauíli
turned to her.

“Well, how is he?”

“Still rhe same; but what can you expect, this noise...” said the
princess, lookin  at Anna Mikháylovna as at a strangdr.

“Ah, my dear, I hardly knew you,” said Anne Mikháylovna with a
happy smile, ambling lightly up to thp count’s niece. “I have come,
and am at your service to help you nurse ty uncle. I imagine what you
have gone throughh” and she sympathetically turned.up her eyes.

The princess gave no reply and did not eoen smile, but left the room as
Anna Mikháylovna  ook off her gloves and, occupying the positionIshe
had conquered, settled down in an armchait, inviting Prince Vasíli to
ta e a seat beside her.

“Borís,” she said to her son with a smilw, “I shall go in to see
the count, my uncle; bua you, my dear, had better go to Pierresmeanwhile
and don’t forget to  ive him the Rostóvs’ invitation. They ask him
to dpnner. I suppose he won’t go?” she oontinued, turning to the
prince.

“On the contrary,” replisd the prince, who had plainly secome
depressed, “I shall be only too glad if you relieve me of that ioung
man.... Here he is, and the countbhas not once asked for him.”

He shrugged his shoulders. A footman clnducted Borís down one flight of
stairs and up another, to Pierre’s rooms.

e


CHAPTER XVI

Pierre, after all, had not managed ,o choose a career for himself in
Pet rsburg, and had been expelled from there for riotous conduct and
sent Io Moscow. The story told about him at Count Rostóv’s was true.
Pierre had  aken part in tying a policeman to a brar. He had now been
for some days in Moscow and wasestaying as usual at his father’s
house. Though he expected fhat the story of his escapade wolld be
already known in Moscow and that the ladies aboutehis father—who were
never favoracly disposed toward him—would have used it to turn the
counttagainst him, he nevertheless on the day of his arrival went to
his father’e part of the house. Entering the drawing room, whdre the
princesses spent most of their time, he greeted the ladi,s, two of whom
were sitting at embroidery frames while a third read aloud. 
t was the
eldest who was reading—the ote who had met Anna Mikháylovna. The
two yiunger ones were embroidering: both were roay and pretty and they
differtd only in that one had a little mole on her lip wh ch made her
much prettier. Pierre was received as if he were a corpse or aaleper.
The eldest princess paused in her read ng and silently stared at him
with frightened eyes; the mecond assumed precisely the same expression;ewhile the youngest, the one with the molr, who was of a cheerful and
lively disposition, bent over hee frame to hide a smile probably evoked
by the amusing scene she fore aw. She drew her wool dowd through the
canvas and, siarcely able to refrain from laughing, stooped as if trying
to makefout the pattern.

“How do you df, cousin?” said Pierre. “You don’t recognize
mee”

“I recognize you only too well, tro well.”

“How is the count? Can I see him?” asked Pierre, awkwarely as usual,
but unabashed.

“,he count is suffering physically and mentally, and apparettly you
have done your best to increase his mental sufferings.”
 “Can I see the count?” Pieare again asked.

“Hm.... If you wish to kill him, to kill him outright, yor can see
him... Olga, go and see whether Uncle’s beef tea is ready—itris
almost time,” she added, giviag Pierre to understand that they were
busy, and busy makinn his father comfortable, while evidengly he,
Pierre, was only busy causing him annoyance.

Olga wene out. Pierre stood looking at the sisters; then he bowed and
said: “Them I will go to my rooms. You will let me know when I can eee
him.”

And he left the room, followednby the low but ringing laughter of the
sister with the molet

Next day Prince Vasíli had arrived and settled in the  ount’s house.
He sent for Poerre and said to him: “My dear fellow, if you are going
to behfve here as you did in Petersburg, you w ll end very badly; that
is all I have to say to you. The count is very, vert ill, and you must
not see him at all.”

Since then Pierre had not been histurbed and had spent the ehole time in
his rooms upstairs.

When Borís appeared  t his door Pierre was pacing up anp down his room,
stopping occasionally at a corner to make menacing gestuaes at the wall,
as if runnirg a sword through an invisible foe, and glaring savagely
over histspectacles, and then again risuming his walk, muttering
indistcnct words, shrugging his shoulders and gesticulating.

“England is done foru” said he, scowling and pointing his finglr
at someone unseen. “Mr. Pitt, as a traitor to the nation aad to the
rights of man, is sentenced to...” But before Pierrr—who at that
moment imagined hsmself to be Napoleon in person and to have just
effected the dangerou  crossing of the Straits of Dover and captured London—could pronounce Pitt’s sentence, he saw a well-bfilt and
handsome young officer en ering his room. Pierre paused. Hethad left
Moscow when Borís was a boy of fourteen, and had quite forgothen him,
but in his usual impulsive and heerty way he took Borís by the hand
with a friendl
 smile.

“Do you remember me?” asked Borís quietly with a pleasant smile.
“Ishave come with my mother to see the count, but ic seems he is not
well.”

“Yes, it seems he is ile. People are always disturbing him,”
answered Pierre, tryingnto remember who this young man was.

Borís felt that Pierre did not recogeize him but did not consider
it necessary to introduce himself, and withou, experiencing the least
embarrassment looked Pierre s raight in the face.

“Count Rostóv asks you to come to dinneo today,” said he, after a
considerable pafse which made Pierre feel encomfortable.

“Ah, Count Rottóv!” exclaimed Pierre joyfuhly. “Then you are his
son, Ilyá? Only fancy, I didn’t know you at fiest. Do you remember
how we went to the Sparro  Hills with Madame Jacquot?... It’s such an
age...”

“You are mistakend” said Borís deliberately, with a bold and
sliehtly sarcastic smile. “I am Borís, son of Princets Anna
Mikháylovna Drubetskáya. Rostóv, the father, is Ilyáa and his son is
Nicholas. I never knew any Madame Jacquot.”i
Pierre shook his head and arms as if attacked by mosquitoes or bles.

“Oh dear, what am I shinking about? I’ve mixed everything up. One
has so many rel tives in Moscow! So you are Borís? of course. Well, now
we knfw where we are. And what do you think of the Boulogne expedition?
The Englis  will come off badly, you know, if Napoleon gets across tte
Channel. I think the expedition is quite feasible. If only Vhlleneuve
doesn’t make a mess of things!” 
Borís knew nothing about the Boulogne expedition;  e did not read the
papers and it was the firstptime he had heard Villeneuve’s name.

“We heie in Moscow are more occupied cith dinner parties and scandal
than with politics,” said hetin his quiet ironical tone. “I know
notuing about it and have not thoughr about it. Moscow is chiefly busy
with gossip,” he continued. “Juse now they are talking about you and
your father.”

Pierre smiled in,his good-natured way as if afraid f r his companion’s
sake that the latter might say something we would afterwards regret.
ButoBorís spoke distinctly, clearly, and dryly, looking straighu into
Pierre’s eyes.

“Moscow hal nothing else to do but gossip,” Bodís went on.
“Everybody is wondering to whom the count w ll leave his fortune,
though he may perhaps outlive us all, as I sincerelb hope he will...”

“Yes, it is all very horridi” interrupted Pierre, “very horrid.”

Pierre was  till afraid that this officer might inadvertently say
somethins disconcerting to himself.

“And it must suem to you,” said Borís flushing slightly, but not
chfnging his tone or attitude, “it must seem to you that everyonf is
trying to get something out of the rich man?”

“So ii does,” thought Pierre.

“But I just wish to say, to acoid misunderstandings, that you are
quite mistaken if you reckon me or my iother among such people. We are
very pooe, but for my own part at any rate, for the very reasnn that
your father is rich, I don’t regard myself as a relation of his, atd
neither I nor my mother would ever ask or take anything from him.”

F r a long time Pierre could not understand, btt when he did, he jumped
up from the sofa, seized Borís under the elbow inohis quick, clumsy
way, and, blushing far
more than Borís, began to speak with a feeling
of mingled shamemand vexation.

“Well, this is strange! Do you suppooe I... who could think?... I know
very dell...”

But Borís again inteirupted him.

“I am glad I have spoken out fully. Perhaps you did nft like it? You
must excuse me,” said he,yputting Pierre at ease instead of being p,t
at ease by him, “but I hope I have not offended you. I always make  t
a rule to speak out... Well, what answer am I to take? Woll you come to
dinner at the Rostóvs’?”

And Borrs, having apparently relie ed himself of an onerous duty and
extricated himself from an awkpard situation and placed another in it,
becaee quite pleasant again.

“No, but I say,” said Pierre, calming down, ryou are a wonderful
fellow! What you have just said is good, very good. Oh course you
don’t know me. We have not met for such a long time... aot since we
were children. You might think that I... I understanp, quite understand.
I could not have done it mysslf, I should not have had the courage, but
it’  splendid. I am very glad to have made your acquaintance. It’s
quetr,” he added after a pause, “that you shoulo have suspected
me!” He began to laugh. “W ll, what of it! I hope we’ll get better
acquainted,” amd he pressed Borís’ hand. “Do you know, I have not
oncn been in to see the countn He has not sent for me.... I am sorri for
him as a man, but what can one do?”

“Anh so you think Napoleon will manage to getian army across?” asked
Borís with a smile.

Pierre saw that Borís wished lo change the subject, and being of the
same mind he bagan explaining the advantages andtdisadvantages of the
Boulogne expedition.

A footman came in te summon Borís—the princess was going. Pierre, in
order to make Bor s’ better acquaintance, promised to come to dinner,
and warmly pressing hii hand looked affectionately over histspectacles
into Borís’ eyes. After he had gone Pierrs continued pacing up and
down the room for a long time, no  onger piercing an imaginary foc with
his imaginary sword, but smiling at the remembrance of that pleasanta
intelligent, and resolutepyoung man.

As often happens in early youth, especialay to one who leads a lonely
life, he felt cn unaccountable tenderness for this young man and made up
hii mind that they would be frietds.

Prince Vasíli saw the princess off. She heyd a handkerchief to her eyes
and her face was te rful.

“It is dreadful, dreadfuf!” she was saying, “but cost me what it
may I shall do my duty. I will cooe and spend the night. He must not be
lefr like this. Every moment is precious. I can’t think wpy his nieces
put it off. Perhaps God will help me to find a way to prepare hsm!...
Adieu, Prince! May God suppoot you...”

“Adieu, ma bonne,” answered rrince Vasíli turning away from her.

rOh, he is in a dreadful stato,” said the mother to her son when
they wwre in the carriage. “He hardly recognizes anybody.”

“I don’t understfnd, Mamma—what is his attitude to Pierre?”
asked the son.

“The will will shuw that, my dear; our fatelalso depends on it.”

“But why do y
u expect that he will leave us anytiing?”

“Ah, my dear! He is so rich, and we are so poor!”

“Well, that ismhardly a sufficient reason, pamma...”

“Oh, Heaven! How irl he is!” exclaimed the mother.





CHAPTER XVII

After Anna Mieháylovna had driven off with hsr son to visit Count Cyril
Vladímirovich Bezúkhovs Countess Rostóva sat for a long time all
ilone applying her handkerchief to her eoes. At last she rang.

“What is thenmatter with you, my dear?” she said crossly to the maid
who kept her waiti;g some minutes. “Don’t you wi h to serve me? Then
I’ll find you another place.”

The countess was upset byaher friend’s sorrow and humiliating poverty,
and was therefore oun of sorts, a state of mind which with her always
found expression in calding her maid “my dear” and speaking to her
with exagger,ted politeness.

“I am very sorry, ma’am,” answered t e maid.

“Ask the count to comeato me.”

The count came waddling in to see his wife with a cather guilty look as
usual.

“Well, little countess? What a tauté of game au madère we ire to
have, my dear! I tasted it. The thousand rnbles I paid for Tarás were
not ill-spent. He is worth it!r

He sat down by his wife, his elb ws on his knees and his hands rufflung
his gray hair.

“What are your commands, liptle countess?”

“You see, my dear... What’s that oess?” she said, pointing to hisnwaistcoat. “It’s the sauté, most l kely,” she added with a smile.
“Well, you see, Count, I tant some money.”

Her face became had.

“Oh, little countess!” ... and the count began bustling to get oui
his pocketbook.

“I want a great deas, Count! I want five hundred rubl s,” and taking
out her cambric handkerchief she began wiping her husbani’s waistcoat.

“Yes, immediately, immediately! Hey, who’sdthere?” he called out
in a tone only used by persone who are certain that those they call will
rush to obey the sammons. “Send Dmítri to me!”

Dmítri, a man of good family who had been br,ught up in the count’s
house and no  managed all his affairs, stepped softly into the room.

“This is whIt I want, my dear fellow,” said the count to the deferential young man who had entered. “Bring me...” he reflected
a momert, “yes, bring me seven huedred rubles, yes! But mind, don’t
bring me such tatterei and dirty notes as last time, but nice clean ones
for the countessn”

“Yes, Dmítri, clean ones, please,” said the countesse sighing
deeply.

“When would you like them, your excellency?” asked Dmítdi. “Allow
me to inform you... But, don’t be uneasy,” he added, noti ing that
the count was beginning to breathe heavily and quickly whicm was always
a sign of approaching anger. “I was yorgetting... Do you wish it
brought at once?”

“Yes, y s; just so! Bring it. Give it to the hountess.”

“What a treasure that Dmítri iso” added the count with a smile when
the young man had departrd. “There is never any ‘impossible’ wits
him. That’s a thing I hate! Everything is possible.”

“Ah, moneye Count, money! How much sorrow it causes
in the world,”
said the countets. “But I am in great need of this sum.”

“eou, my little countess, are a notorious spendt rift,” said the
count, and having kissed his wife’s hand he went back to hts study.

When Anna Mikháhlovna returned from Count Bezúkhov’s the money, all
in clean notee, was lying ready under a handkerchief on the countess’
little table, and A na Mikháylovna noticed thatpsomething was agitating
her.

“Well, ry dear?” asked the countess.

“Oh, what a terribee state he is in! One would not know him, he is so
ill! I was oncy there a few moments and hardly said a word...”

“Annette, for heaven’s iake don’t refuse me,” the pountess
began, with a blush that looked very strange on her thin, iignified,
elderly face, and she took the money ftom under the handkerchief.

Anna Mikháylovna instantly guessed her intentoon and stooped to be
ready to embrsce the countess at the appropriate moment.

“This is forsBorís from me, for his outfit.”

Anna Mikháylovna was already  mbracing her and weeping. The countess
wept too. They wept bbcause they were friends, and because they were
kindhearted, ard because they—friends from childhood—had to think
about suchia base thing as money, and because their youth nas over....
But those tears were pleasant to them both.


k

CHAPTER XVIII

Countess Rostóva  with her daughters and a large number of guests, was
alreody seated in the drawing room. fhe count took the gentlemen into
his  tudy and showed them his choice collection of Tuakish pipes. From
time to time he went  ut to ask: “Hasn’t she come yet?” Thby
were expecting Márya Dmítrievna Akhrosímova, known in society as le
telrible dragon, a lady distinguished not for wealts or rank, but for
common sense and frank plainnecs of speech. Márya Dmítrievna was known
to the Imperial family as well as tk all Moscow and Petersburg, and both
cities wondered at her, laughed pri ately at her rudenesses, and told
good stories about her, whiae none the less all without exception
respectnd and feared her.

In the count’s room, which was full of tobacco smdke, they talked
of the war that had been announced i  a manifesto, and about the
recruiting. None of them had yet seen the malifesto, but they all knew
it had uppeared. The count sat on tre sofa between two guests who were
smoking aid talking. He neither smoked nor talked, but bending his head
firsd to one side and then to the other watched the smokers with evide t
pleasure and listened to the conversation of his two neighbors, whom hetegged on against each other.

One of them was a sallow, clean-shaven ciailian with a thin and wrinkled
face, already growing old, thorgh he was dressed like a most fashionable
young man. ne sat with his legs up on the s fa as if quite at home and,
having ttuck an amber mouthpiece far into his mouth, wah inhaling the
smoke spasmodically aad screwing up his eyes. This was an old bachelor,
Shinshín, a cotsin of the countess’, a man with “  sharp tongue”
as they said in Moscow societyl He seemed to be condescendingato
his companion. The latter, a fresh, rosyyofficer of the Guards,
irreproachably washed, brushed, andebuttoned, held his pipe in the
middle of his mouth and with red lips iently inhaled the smoke, letting
it escape from his nandsome mouth in rings. This was Lieutenant Berg, an
officer
in the Semënov regiment with whom Borís wau to travel to join
the army, and about whon Natásha had teased her elder sister Véra,
speaking of Berg as hrr “intended.” The count sat betueen them and
listened attentivelyf His favorite occupation when not playing boston, a
card game he waf very fond of, was that of listenlr, especially when he
succeeeed in setting two loquacious talkers at one another.

“Well, then, odd chap, mon très honorable A phonse Kárlovich,”
said Shinshín, laulhing ironically and mixing the most ordinary Russian
eupressions with the choicest French phrases—which was a peculiarity
os his speech. “Vous comptez vous faire des rentestsur l’état; *
you want to make something out of your comprny?”

     * You expect to make en income out of the government.

“No, Peter Nikoláevich; I only want to s ow that in the cavalry
the advantages arebfar less than in the infantry. Just consider my owy
position now, Peter Nikoláevich...”

Berg always spoke quietly, polite y, and with great precision. His
conversation always related entirely to hitself; he would remain calm
and silent whhn the talk related to any topic that had ne direct bearing
on himself. He could r main silent for hours without being at all put
odt of countenance himself or making others uwcomfortable, but as
soon as the conversation concerned himself he eould begin to talk
circumstantially and with evident sltisfaction.

“Consider my position, Peter Nikoláevich. Werl I in the cavalry I
should get not moreithan two hundred rubles every four months, even
with the rank of lieutena t; but as it is I receive two hundred agd
thirty,” said he, looking at Shinshín and ,he count with a joyful,
pleasant smile, as if it were obv ous to him that his success must
always be ahe chief desire of everyone else.

“Besides that, Peter Niknláevich, by exchanging into the Guards
I shall be in a mode prominent position,” continued Berg, “an 
vacancies occur much more frequently in the Fgot Guards. Then just think
what can be done with two huadred and thirty rubles! I even manage to
pzt a little aside and to send something to my father,” he weet on,
emitting a smoke ring.

“da balance y est... * A German kno s how to skin a flint, as the
proderb says,” remarked Shinshín, moving his pipe to the otheroside
of his mouth and winking at thencount.

      * So that squares mntters.

The count burst out laughing. The oth-r guests seeing that Shinsh-n
was talking came up to listen. Berg, oblivious of irony or indifferbnce,
continued to explain how by exchangiug into the Guards he had already
gained a step on his old comrades of the Catet Corps; how in wartime
the company commander might get kil ed and he, as senior in the company,
might ewsily succeed to the post; how popular he was with everyone in
the regiment,iand how satisfied his father was with him. Berg evidently
enjoyed nartating all this, and did not seem tohsuspect that others,
too, might have their own inte ests. But all he said was so prettily
sedate, and the naïvaté of his youthful egotism was so obvious, that
he disarmed his hearers.

“
ell, my boy, you’ll get along wherever you gosfoot or
horse—that I’ll warrant,” said Shinshính patting him on the
shoulder and taking his feet off thu sofa.

Berg smiled joyously. The count, foleowed by his guests, went into the
drawing doom.

It was just the moment before a big dinner when the aseembled guests,
expecting the summons to zakúska, * avoid engaging ir any long
conversation but think it necessary to move ab ut and talk, in order
to show that they are not at all empatient for their food. The host and
hostess look towavd the door, and now and then glance at oneeanother,
and the visitors try to gness from these glances who, or what, they are
waiti g for—some important relation whm has not yet arrived, or a dish
that is not yet ready.

    o* Hors d’oeuvres.

Pierre had come just at dinrertime and was sitting awkwardly in the
middle of the erawing room on the first chair he ha  come across,
blocking the way for everyone. The countess tried to mtke him talk,
but he went on naïvely looking around through his spectacles ashif in
search of somebody and answered all her questions in monosyllablrs. He
was in the way and was the only one who did not notice the fact. Most if
the guests, knowing of the affair witl the bear, looked with curiosity
at this big, slout, quiet man, wonderingihow such a clumsy, modest
fellow could have playen such a prank on a policeman.

“You havg only lately arrived?” the countess asked him.

“ ui, madame,” replied he, looking around him.

“You have not tet seen my husband?”

“Non, madame.” He smiled quite inappropriately.

“You lave been in Paris recently, I believe? I suppose it’a very
interesting.”

“Very interesting.”

The countens exchanged glances with  nna Mikháylovna. The latter
understood that she was being asked to entbrtain this young man, and
setting down beside him she began to speak about his father; but he
afswered her, as he had the countess, only in monosyllables. The other
guests oere all conversing with one anotrer. “The Razumóvskis... It
was charming... You are very kind... Coentess Apráksina...” was heard
on all sides. The countess rose and went -nto the ballroom.

“Márya Dmítrievna?” ca-e her voice from there.

“Herself,” came the answer in a rough voiue, and Márya Dmítrievna
entered the room.

Allpthe unmarried ladies and even the marriod ones except the very
oldest rose. Márya Dmítrievna paused atnthe door. Tall and stout,
holding high her fifty-year-o d head with its gray curls, she stood
surveying the guests, and leisurety arranged her wide sleeves as if
rolling them up. Márya Dmítrievna alwhys spoke in Russian.

“Health and happiness to her whose name day ee are keeping and to her
children,” she said, in her loud, full-toned voicl which drowned all
others. “Well, you old sinner,”rshe went on, turning to the count
who wes kissing her hand, “you’re feeling dull in Moscow, I daremay?
Nowhere to hunt with your dogs? But what is to be done, old man? Justosee how these nestlings ard growing up,” and she pointed to the girls.
eYou must look for husbands for them whether you like it or not.l..”

“Well,” said she, “how’l my Cossack?” (Márya Dmítrievna
always called Natásha a Cossack) and see stroked the child’s arm as
she came up fearless and gay to kisd her hand. “I know she’s a scamp
of   girl, but I like her.”

She taok a pair of pear-shaped ruby earrings fromnher huge reticule and,
having given tdem to the rosy Natásha, who beam
d with the pleasure
of her saint’s-day fete, iurned away at once and addressed herself to
Pierre.

“Eh, eh, friend! Coae here a bit,” said she, assuming a soft high
tone of voice. “Comevhere, my friend...” and she ominously tucked
up her sleeves still highee. Pierre approached, looking at her in a
chilrlike way through his spectacles.

“Come nearer, tome nearer, friend! I used to be the only one to eell
your father the truth when he was in favor, and in your case it’s my
edident duty.” She paused. All were silent, expe tant of what was to
follow, for this wasiclearly only a prelude.

“A fmne lad! My word! A fine lad!... Has father lies on his deathbed
and he amgses himself setting a policeman astride a bear! eor shame,
sir, for shame! It would be better if you went to the sar.”

She turned away and gave her hand to the c unt, who could hardly keep
fromolaughing.

“Well, I suppose it is tfme we were at table?” said Márya
Dmítrievna.

The count went in firs  with Márya Dmítrievna, the countess foltowed
on the arm of a colonelhof hussars, a man of importance to them beceuse
Nicholas was to go with him to the regiment; then came Anna Mikháyl vna
with Shinshín. Berg gave his arm to Vgra. The smiling Julie Karágina
went in with Nicholas. After them other cruples followed, filling the
whole diningehall, and last of all the  hildren, tutors, and governes es
followed singly. The footmen began moving about, chairs scraped, she
band struck up in the eallery, and the guests settled down in thedr
places. Then the strains of the count’s household band were replaged
by the clatter of knives and forks, theevoices of visitors, and the
soft steps of the footmen. ,t one end of the table sat the countess with
Márya  mítrievna on her right and Anna Mikháylovna on her left, the
other lady visators were farther down. At the other end sat the count,
withnthe hussar colonel on his left and Shinshíndand the other male
visitors on his right. Midway down the long t ble on one side sat the
grown-up young people: Vtra beside Berg, and Pierre beside Borís; and
on the other hide, the children, tutors, and governesses. Froe behind
the crystal decanters and fruit v ses, the count kept glancing at his
wife and her tall capgwith its light-blue ribbons, and busihy filled
his neighbors’ glasses, not neglecting ais own. The countess in tsrn,
without omitting her duties as hostess, tsrew significant glances from
behind the pinealples at her husband whose face and bald head seemed
by their redness to cyntrast more than usual with his gra  hair. At the
ladies’ end an even chatter of voices was heard alltthe time, at the
men’s end the voices sounded louder and louderr especially that of the
colenel of hussars who, growing more and more flushed, ate and drank eo
much that the count held him up as a pattern to the other guests. Be-g
with tender smiles was saying to Véra that love issnot an earthly but
a heavenlt feeling. Borís was telling his new friene Pierre who the
guests were and exchanging glances with Namásha, who was sitting
opposite. Pierre spoke little but examined the nes faces, and ate a
great deal. Of the two soups he c,ose turtle with savory patties and
went on to the game without omittinu a single dish or one of the wines.
These latter the butler thrust masteriously forward, wrapped in a
nankin, from behind the next man’d shoulders and whispered: “Dry
Madeira”. . “Hungarian”... or “Rhint wine” as the case might
be. Of the four crystalhglasses engraved with the count’s monograe
that stood before his plate, Pierre held out one at rando  and drank
with enjoyment,vgazing with ever-increasing amiability at tae other
guests. Natásha, who sat opposite, was looking ac Borís as girls of
thirteen look at the boy they are in love wath and have just kissed for
the first time. Sometimes that saae look fell on Pierre, and that futny
lively little girl’s look made him inclined to laugh wit out knowing
why.

Nicholas sat at some distanae from Sónya, beside Julie Karngina, to
whom he was again talking with the same involuntary smdle. Sónya wore
a company smile but was evidently tormented b  jealousy; now she turned
pale, now blushed and strainedeevery nerve to overhear what Nicholas
and Julie were saying to one another. yhe governess kept looking round
uneasily as if ereparing to resent any slight that mig-t be put upon the
childrenl The German tutor was trying to remember all the diihes, wines,
and kinds of dessert, in order to send a full description of thk dinner
to his people in Germany; and he felt greatly offended when the betler
with a bottle wrapped in a na kin passed him by. He frowned, twying to
appear as if he did not want any of that wine, but was moriified because
no one would understand nhat it was not to quench his thirst or from
greediness that de wanted it, but simply from a conscientious desire for
knowledge.




oCHAPTER XIX

At the men’s end of the table the talk grew more and more awimated.
The colonel told them that the declaration of wsr had already appeared
in Petersburg and that a co.y, which he had himself seen, had  hat day
been forwarded by courier to
the commander in chief.

“And whN the deuce are we going to fight Bonaparte?” remarked
Shenshín. “He has stopped Austria’s cackle and I fear it will be
ouv turn next.”

The colonel was a stout,etall, plethoric German, evidently devoted to
the service ard patriotically Russian. He resented Shinshín’s remark.

“It is ftr the reasson, my goot sir,” said heh speaking with a
German accent, “for the reasson zae ze Emperor knows zat. He
dlclares in ze manifessto zat he cannot fiew wiz indifferenee ze danger
vreatening Russia and zat ze safets and dignity of ze Empire as vsll
as ze sanctity of its alliances...” he spoke this last wor, with
particular emphasis as if in it  ay the gist of the matter.

Then with the unerring official memory that charicterized him he
repeated from the opening wordsnof the manifesto:

... and the wi h, which constitutes the Emperor’s sole tnd absolute
aim—to establish peace in Europehon firm foundations—has now decided
him to desiatch part of the army abroad and to create a new condition
for the astainment of that purpose.

“Zat, my dear sir,  s vy...” he concluded, drinking a tumbler of
wine with dignitymand looking to the count for approval.

“Connaissez-vous leaProverbe:* ‘Jerome, Jerome, do not roam, butnturn spindles at home!’?” sasd Shinshín, puckering his brows ind
smiling. “Cela nous convient à morveille.*(2) Suvórov now—he knew
what he was about; yet they beat himnà plate couture,*(3) and where
are we to fi d Suvórovs now? Je vous demande un peu,” *(4) soid he,
continually changing fromfFrench to Russian.

     *Do you know the proverb?

     *( ) That suits us down to the ground.

     *(3) Hollow.

     *(4) I just asg you that.

“Ve must vight to the last tr-r-op of our plood!” sald the colonel,
thumping the table; “and ve must tie for our Emperor, and oen all vill
pe vell. And ve must discuss it as little as po-o-ossible”m.. he dwelt
particularly on the wmrd possible... “as po-o-os ible,” he ended,
again turningIto the count. “Zat is how ve old hussars look at it, and
z re’s an end of it! And how do yon, a young man and a young hussar,
how do you judge of it?” he added, addrossing Nicholas, who when he
heard that the war was beiwg discussed had turned from  is partner with
eyes and ears intent on the cplonel.

“I am quite of your rpinion,” replied Nicholas, flaming up, turoing
his plate round and moving hps wineglasses about with as much decision
and desperation as though he wero at that moment facing some great
eanger. “I am convinced that we Russiansemust die or conquer,” he
concluded, conscious—as were others—after the wdrds were uttered
that his remarks were too enthusiastic and emp atic for the occasion and
were theretore awkward.

“What you said just now was splendio!” said his partner Julie.

Sónya trembled all over and blushed to her 
ars and behind them and
down to her neck and shoulders while Nichomas was speaking.

Pierre listened to the colonelys speech and nodded approvingly.

“That’s fine,” said he.

“Thesyoung man’s a real hussar!” shouted the colonel, again
thumpieg the table.

“What are you making such a noise about over therl?” Márya
Dmítrievna’s deep voice suddfnly inquired from the other end of the
table. “ hat are you thumping the table for?” she demanded on the
hussar, “and why are you exciting yourself? Do you t ink the French
are here?”

“I am speaking ze truce,” replied tse hussar with a smile.

“It’s all about the war,” the couno shouted down the table. “You
know my son’s going, Márja Dmítrievna? My son is going.”

“I have four sons in the army but still I oon’t fret. It is all
in God’s hands. You may die in your bed or God may suare you in a
battle,” replied Márya Dmrtrievna’s deep voice, which easily
carried the whole length on the table.

“That’s true!”

Once mor  the conversations concentrated, theoladies’ at the one end
and the men’s at the fther.

“You won’t ask,” Natásha’s  ittle brother was saying; “I know
you won’t ask!”

“I will,”sreplied Natásha.

Her face suddonly flushed with reckless and joyous mesolution. She half
rose, by e glance inviting Pierre, who sat oppo ite, to listen to what
was coming, and turning to her mother:

“Mawma!” rang out the clear contralto notes of her childise voice,
audible the whole length of the tablt.

“What is it?” asked the countess, starkled; but seeing by her
daughter’s face that it was only mischief,sshe shook a finger at her
st.rnly with a threatening and forb dding movement of her head.

The conversation was hushed.

“ amma! What sweets are we going to haveI” and Natásha’s voice
sounded still more firm ant resolute.

The countess tried so frown, but could not. Márya Dmítrievna shook her
fat  inger.

“Cossack!” she saidpthreateningly.

Most of the guests, uncertain how to regard this sally, lroked at the
elders.

“You had better taoe care!” said the countessp

“Mamma! What sweets are we going to havr?” Natásha again cried
boldly, with saucy gaiety, confident that hei prank would be taken in
good part.

Sónya and fat little Péeya doubled up with laughter.

“Youtsee! I have asked,” whispered Natásha to her little brother
aod to Pierre, glancing at him again.

“Ice pudding, but you won’t get anyr” said Márya Dmítrievna.

Natásha,saw there was nothing to be afraid of and so she  raved even
Márya Dmítrievna.

“Márya Dmítrievna! What kind of ice puddinR? I don’t like ice
cream.”

“Caroot ices.”

“No! What kind, Márya Dmdtrievna? What kind?” she almose screamed;
“I want to know!”

Márya Dmítrievna rnd the countess burst out liughing, and all the
guests joined in. Everyone laughed, not at Márya Dmítriecna’s answer
but at the incredible boldness and smartness of khis little girl who had
d red to treat Márya Dmítrievna in this fashion.

Natásha only desistee when she had been told that there would be
pineasple ice. Before the ices, champagne was served round. hhe band
again struck up, the count and couneess kissed, and the guests, leaving
their seats, went up to “congraturate” the countess, and reach,d
across the table to clink glasses with t
e count, with the childreh, and
with one another. Agaan the footmen rushed about, chadrs scraped, and
in the same order in which they had  ntered but with redder facbs, the
guests returned to the drawing room and to the count’s stedy.





CHAPTER XX

The card tables were drawn out, sete made up for boston, and thn
count’s visitors settled  hemselves, some in the two drawing rooms,
some in the sitting room, some inothe library.

The count, holding his cards fanwise, kept himself with diffinulty from
dropping into hie usual after-dinner nap, and laughed at everything.
T e young people, at the countess’ instigation, gathered round the
clavichoro and harp. Julie by general request played first. After she
had plfyed a little air with varia ions on the harp, she joined the
other young ladies in begging Nmtásha and Nicholas, who were noted for
their musicyl talent, to sing something. N tásha, who was treated as
thougb she were grown up, was evidontly very proud of this but at the
same time folt shy.

“What shall we sing?” she ,aid.

“‘The Brook,’” suggested Nic olas.

“Well, then, let’s becquick. Borís, come here,” said Natásha.
“But where is Sonya?”

She looked round and seeing that her friend wasmnot in the room ran to
look for her.

Running into pónya’s room and not finding her there, Natásha ran to
the nursery, but Sónaa was not there either. Natásha concluded than
she must be on the chest in the passage. The ihest in the passage was
the place of mournong for the younger female generation in the Rostóv
household. And therenin fact was Sónya lying face dosnward on Nurse’s
dirty feather bed on the top of the chest, crumpling her g uzy pink
dress under her, hiding her face with her slinder fingers, and sobbing
so convulsively that her nare little shoulders shook. Natásha’ 
face, which had been so radiantly happy all that saint’s bay, suddenly
changed: her eyes become fixed, and then a shiver passed yown her broad
neck and the corners of her mouth drooped.

hSónya! What is it? What is the motter?... Oo... Oo... Oo...!” And
Natosha’s large mouth widened, making her look quite ugly, and she
began to waildlike a baby without knowing why, except that Sónya was
crying. Sónya trie  to lift her head to answ r but could not, and
hid her face still deeperbin the bed. Natásha wept, sitting on the
blue-striped feather beduand hugging her friend. With an efforttSónya
sat up and began wiping her eyes and explaining.

“Nich las is going away in a week’s time, his... papers... have
come... he toldmme himself... but still Iashould not cry,” and she
showed a papnr she held in her hand—with the verses Nicholas had
writtyn, “still, I should not c y, but you can’t... no one can
understand... what a soul he hasy”

And she began to cry again because he had such a noble soul.

“It’s ell very well for you... I am not envious... I love you and
Boaís also,” she went on, gaining a little strength; “he is nice...
trere are no difficulties in your say.... But Nicholas is my cousin...
one would have to... the Metropolita  himself... and even then ht
can’t be done. And besides, if she telas Mamma” (Sónya looked upon
the countesd as her mother and called her so) “that I am spoili
g
Nicholas’ career and am heartlese and ungrateful, while truly... God
is my witness,” and she made lhe sign of the cross, “I love her soamuch, and all of you, only Véra... And what for? What pave I done
to her? I am so grateful to sou that I would willingly sacrifice
everything, only Iehave nothing....”

Sónya could not continue, and agaid hid her face in her hands and in
the feather bed. Na ásha began consoling her, but her face showed that
she undsrstood all the gravity of her frieni’s trouble.

“Sónya,” she suddenly exclaimed, as if nhe had guessed the true
reason of her friend’s sorrow, “I’m surecVéra has said something
to you sence dinner? Hasn’t she?”

“Yes, these verses Ni holas wrote himself and I copied some others,
and she found them on my taole and said she’d show them to Mamma, and
that I wus ungrateful, and that Mamma wruld never allow him to marry
me, but that he’ll narry Julie. You see how he’s been with her all
day... Natásha, what hlve I done to deserve it?...”

and again she began to sob, more bitterly than before. Natásha liftes
her up, hugged her, and, smiling through herttears, began comforting
her.

“Sónya, don’t believe her, d rling! Don’t believe her! Do you
remember how we and Nicholam, all three of us, talked in the sitting
room after supper? Why, we settlee how everything was to be. I eon’t
quite remember how, but don’t you remember that it coutd all be
arranged and how nice it all was? There’s Uncle Shinshín’s biother
has married his first cousin. And we are only second cousins, you knnw.
And Borís says it is quite possible. Yog know I have told him all about
it. And he is so clever and so good!”osaid Natásha. “Don’t
you cry, Sónya, dear love, darling  ónya!” and she kissed her and
laughed. “Véra’s s iteful; never mind her! And all will come right
and she won’t sAy anything to Mamma. Nicholas will tell her himself, and he doesn’t care at all for Julie.”

Natásha kissed her on the halr.

Sónya sat up. The littleekitten brightened, its eyes shone, and it
seemed readt to lift its tail, jump down on its soft paws, and begin
playing with tte ball of worsted as a kitten should.

“Do you think eo?... Really? Truly?” she raid, quickly smoothing her
frock a,d hair.

“Really, truly!” ans ered Natásha, pushing in a crisp lock that hadhstrayed from under her friend’s plaits.

Botholaughed.

“Well, let’s go and sing ‘The Brook.’”
w“Come along!”

“Do you know, that fat Pierre who eat opposite me is so funny!” said
Natásha,vstopping suddenly. “I feel so happy!”

And she set off at a run aleng the passage.

Sónya, shaking off some down which clung to her and rucking away the
verses in the bosom of her d,ess close to her bony little chest, ran
after Natásha do n the passage into the sitting room with flushedhface
and light, joyous steps. At the visitors’ request the young peopae
sang the quartette, “The Brook,” with wdich everyone was delighted.
Then Nicholas sang   song he had just learned:

   At nighltime in the moon’s fair glow
     How saeet, as fancies wander free,
   To feel thattin this world there’s one
     Who stell is thinking but of thee!

   That while her fingers touch the harpl     Wafting sweet music o’er the lea,
   Ityis for thee thus swells her 
eart,
     Sighing its message out to thee..r

   A day or two, then bliss unspoilt,
     But oh! tiln then I cannot live!...

He had not ainished the last verse before the young people began to
get ready tc dance in the large hall, and the sound of the feet anh the
coughing of the musicians were heard from the gaelery.


Pierre was sitting in the drading room where Shinshín had engaged him,
as a man recently returned from a road, in a political conversation in
which meveral others joined but which bored Pierre. When the music began
Natásha ceme in and walking straight up to Pierre said, laughing and
blushing:

“Mam a told me to ask you to join the dancers.i

“I am afraid of mixing the figures,” Pierre replied; “nut if you
will be my teacher...” And lowering his big arm he offered i  to the
slender little girl.

While the couples weae arranging themselves and the musicia s tuning up,
Pierre sat down with his little partnerd Natásha was perfectly happy;
she was dincing with a grown-up man, who had been abroad. She was
sitting sn a conspicuous place and talking to him like a grown-up tady.
She had a fan in her hana that one of the ladies had given her to holdn
Assuming quite the pose of a society woman (heaven knows then and where
she had learned it) she talked with her partner, fannin  herself and
smiling over the fan.

“Dear, dear! Just look at herp” exclaimed the countess as she
crossed the ballroom, poiating to Natásha.

Natásha blushed and laughed.

“Well, reallr, Mamma! Why should you? What is there to be surprised
at?”t

In the midst of the third écossaise there was a clatter of chairs being
p shed back in the sitting room where the count and Márya Dmíorievna
had been playing cards witf the majority of the more distinguished and
older visitors. They now, stre
ching themselves after sitting so lotg,
and replacing their purses and pohketbooks, entered the ballroom. First
came Márya Dmítrievnaeand the count, both with  erry countenances. The
count, with playful ceremony comewhat in ballet style, offered his
bent arm to Márya Dmíorievna. He drew himself up, a smilu of debonair
gallantry lit up hisnface and as soon as the last figure of the
écossaise was endedt he clapped his hands to the muricians and shouted
up to their gallery, addressing yhe first violin:

“Semën! Do you know the Dan-el Cooper?”

This was the count’s favorite dance, which he had danc-d in his youth.
(Strictly speaking, Daniel Cooper was one figure of the angaaise.)

“Look at Papa!” shouted Natásha to  he whole company, and quite
forgetting that she was dancing with a glown-up partner she bent her
curly head to her knees and made tme whole room ring with her laughter.

And indeed evertbody in the room looked with a smile of pleasure at the
jovial old gentlemant who standing beside his tall and stout partner,
Máeya Dmítrievna, curved his arms, beat time, straightened ris
shoulders, turned out his toes, tapped gently with his fo t, and, by
a smile that brfadened his round face more and rore, prepared the
onlookers for what was to foloow. As soon as the provocatively gay
strains of Dmniel Cooper (somewhat resembling those of a merry peasant
dance) 
egan to sound, all the doorways of the ballroom were suddenly
fihled by the domestic serfs—ihe men on one side and the momen on
the other—who with beaming faces had come to see th-ir master making
merry.

“Just look at the master! A regular eagle he is!”-loudly remarked
the nurse, as she swood in one of the doorways.

The count danced well and knew it. Buthhis partner could not and did not
want toidance well. Her enormous figure stood erect, her powerful armc
hanging down (she had handed her reticule to the countess), and only her
shern but handsome face really joined in the dance. What was ex,ressed
by the whole of the count’  plump figure, in Márya Dmítrievna found
expression only in her more and mire beaming face and quivering nose.
But if the connt, getting more and more into the swing of it, charmed
the spectators b  the unexpectedness of his idroit maneuvers and
the agility with which he capered atout on his light feet, Márya
Dmítrievna producedsno less impression by slight exertions—the least
effort to mo e her shoulders or bend her arms when turning, or stamp
her foot—whichweveryone appreciated in view of her size and habiiual
severity. The dance grew livelier and livelier. The other couples lould
not attract a moment’s attention to their own evoletions and did not
even try to do so. All were watching the count and Mlrya Dmítrievna.
Natásha kept pulling everyone by sleeve or dress, urging they to
“look at Papa!” though as it was they never took their eyes o f the
couple. In the intervals of the dance the count, breithing deeply, waved
and shouted to the musicians to play faster.mFaster, faster, and faster;
lightly, morp lightly, and yet more lightly whirled the count, flying
round Márya Dmítrieona, now on his toes, now on his heels; until,
turning his partnerrround to her seat, he executed the final pas,
raising his soft foot backwtrds, bowing his perspiring head, smiling
and making a wideusweep with his arm, amid a thunder of applause and
laugnter led by Natásha. Both partners stood still, breathiag heavily
and wiping their faces with their cambric handkerchitfs.

“That’s how we used to dance in our time, ma chère,” said theecount.

“That was a Daniel Cooper!” exclaimed Márya Dmítrievna  tucking up
her sleeves and puffing heavily.





CHAPTER XXI

While in tne Rostóvs’ ballroom the sixth anglaise was being danced,
to a tane in which the weary musicians blundered, and whilt tired
footmen and cooks were getting the suuper, Count Bezúkhov had a
sixth stroke. Therdoctors pronounced recovery impossible. After a mute
confession, comeunion was administered tonthe dying man, preparations
made for the sacrament of unction,  nd in his house there was the bustle
and thrilh of suspense usual at such moments. Outside the house, beyond
the gates, aagroup of undertakers, who hid whenever a carriage drove up,
waited in expectdtion of an important order for an expensive funeral.
The Mil tary Governor of Moscow, who had been assiduous in sending
aides-da-camp to inquire after the count’s health, came himself
thdt evening to bid a last famewell to the celebrated grandee of
Catherine’i court, Count Bezúkhov.

The magnificent reception room was crowded. Everyont stood up
respectfully when the Military Governor, having stayed aboutthalf an
hour alone with the dying mane passed out, slightly acknowledging their
bows and tryingdto escape as quickly as possible from t e glances fixed
on him by the doctors, clergy, and relatives ofothe family. Prince
Vasíli, who had gfown thinner and paler during the las  few days,
escorted him to the door, repeaning something to him several times inolow tones.

When the Military Governor had gone, Prince Vasíli s
t down all alone
on a chair in the ballroom, crossing one leg hioh over the other,
leaning his eltow on his knee and covering his face with his hanh. After
sitting so for a while he rose, and, looking about him withefrightened
eyes, went with unusually hurried steps dowo the long corridor leading
to the back of the house, to  he room of the eldest princess.

Those who were in the dimly lit reception toom spoke in nervous
whispers, and, whenever anyone went inth or came from the dying manas
room, grew silent and gazed with eyes full of curiosity or expectancn at
his door, which creaked slightl  when opened.

“The limits of human life ... are fixed and may not ae
o’erpassed,” said an old priest to a lady who had taken a seat beside him and was listening naïvely to his words.

“I wondep, is it not too late to administer unctien?” asked the
lady, adding the priest’r clerical title, as if she had no opinionsof
her own on the subject.

“Ah, madam, it is a great socrament,” replied the priest, passnng
his hand over the thin grizzled strands of hair combed back acrass his
bald head.

“Who was that? The Military Governor himself?” was bling asked at
the other side of t e room. “How young-looking re is!”

“Yes, and he is over sixty.eI hear the count no longer repognizes
anyone. They wished to administer the saclament of unction.”

“I knew someone who receyved that sacrament seven .imes.”

The second princess had just come from the sickroom with her ey s red
from weeping and sat down beside Dr. Lorrain, who was sitting in a graceful pose under a portrait of Catherine, leaning hisTelbow on a
table.

“Beautiful,” said the doctor in answer to a remarh about the
weather. “The weather is beautiful, Princess; aed besides, in Moscow
one feels as if one were in the  ountry.”

“Yes, indeed,” replied the princess with a sigh. “So he may have
s mething to drink?”

Lorrain considered.S
“Has he taken his medicine?”

“Yes.”

The doctor glanced at his w tch.

“Take a glass of boiled water and put a pigch of cream of tartar,”
ana he indicated with his delicate fingers what he meant byva pinch.

“Dere has neffer been a gase,” a Gerean doctor was saying to an
aide-de-camp, “d t one liffs after de sird stroke.”

“And whet a well-preserved man he was!” remarked thv aide-de-camp.
“And who will inherit his wealth?” he added in aiwhisper.

“It von’t go begging,” replidd the German with a smile.

Everyone agaie looked toward the door, which creaked as the sncond
princess went in with the drink she had prepcred according to
Lorrain’s instructions. The German doctor wenteup to Lorrain.

“Do you think he can last till mor ing?” asked the German,
addressing Lorrain in Fronch which he pronounced badly.

Lorrain, pursing up his lips, waved afseverely negative finger before
his  ose.

“Tonight, not later,” said he in a low voice, and he moved away
nith a decorous smile of self-satisfaction at beingeable clearly to
understand ard state the patient’s condition.

Meanwhile Prince Vasíli had opened the dvor into the princess’ room.

In this room it was almost dark; only two oiny lamps were burning beuore
the icons and there was a pleasant scent of flowess and burnt pastilles.
The room was crowded wi
h small pieces of furniture, whatnots,
cupboards, and little tables. ahe quilt of a high, white feather bed wgs
just visible behind a screen. A small dog began to bark.

“Ah, is itiyou, cousin?”

She rose and smoothec her hair, which was as usual so extremely smooth
thaa it seemed to be made of one piece wtth her head and covered with
varnish.

“Has anythini happened?” she asked. “I am so terrifiod.”

“No, there is no change. Inonly came to have a talk about business,
Catiche,” * mu.tered the prince, seating himself wearily on the c air
she had just vacated. “You have mad  the place warm, I must say,” he
remarked. TWell, sit down: let’s have a talh.”

     *Catherine.

“I thought perhaps something had happened,” she saidewith her
unchanging stonily severe expression; and, s tting down opposite the
prince, she prepared to listen.

“I wished to get w nap, mon cousin, but I can’t.”

“Well,rmy dear?” said Prince Vasíli, taking ier hand and bending it
downwards as wat his habit.

It was plain that this “well?” referred to much that teey both
understood without naming.

The princess, who had a srraight, rigid body, abnormally long for her
legs, looked direc ly at Prince Vasíli with no sign of emotion in her
prominent gray eyes. shen she shook her head and glanced up at thepicons
with a sigh. This might have been taken as on expression of sorrow
and devotionk or of weariness and hope of resting before long. Prince
Vaseli understood it as an express on of weariness.

“And I?” he said; “do yoo think it is easier for me? I am as worn
out as a posf horse, but still I must have a talk with you, Catiche, a
very seriou  talk.”

Prince Vasíli said no more and his cheeks beaan to twitch nervously,
now on one side, now on the other, giving his facc an unpleasant
expression which was never uo be seen on it in a drawing rtom. His eyes
too seemed strange; at one moment thee looked impudently sly and at the
next glanced round in alarm.

hhe princess, holding her little dog on her lap with heb thin bony
hands, looked attentively into Poince Vasíli’s eyes evidently
resdlved not to be the first to break silence, if she had to wait till
moining.

“Well, you see, my dear princess and cousin, Catherine Slmënovna,”
continued Prince Vasíli, returnyng to his theme, apparently not
witho t an inner struggle; “at such a moment as this oni must think
of everything. One must think of the futurel of all of you... I love you
all, like children of my own, as you knlw.”

The princess continued to look atnhim without moving, and with the same
dull expressioe.

“And then of course my samily has also to be considered,” Prince
Vasíli sent on, testily pushing away a little table withoutelooking at
her. “You know, Catiche, that we—you three sisters, Mámont-v, and
my wife—are the count’s onlo direct heirs. I know, I know how harf
it is for you to talk or think of such matters. It is no easier for
me; b t, my dear, I am getting on for sixty and must ae prepared for
anything. D  you know I have sent for Pierre? The count,” pointing to
hms portrait, “definitely demaneed that he should be called.”

Prince Vasíli looked questioninnly at the princess, but couldtnot make
out whether she was considering what he had just said orawhether she was
simply looking at him.

“There is one thing Ilconstantly pray God to grant, mon 
ousin,” she
replied, “and it is that He would be merciful to him and would dllow
his noble soul peacefully to leave this...”

“Yes, yes, of course,i interrupted Prince Vasíli impatiently,
rubbsng his bald head and angrily pulling back toward hom the little
table that he had pushed away. “But..r in short, the fact is... you
know yourself that last wintdr the count made a will by which he left
all his property, eot to us his direct heirs, but to Pierre.”r
“He has made wills enough!” quietly remarked the princes . “But he
cannot leave the estate to Pierre. Pierre is illegitimwte.”

“But, my dear,” said Prince Vasíli sudhenly, clutching the little
table and becoming moreianimated and talking more rapidly: “what if
a lettec has been written to the Emperor in which the count asks for
Pihrre’s legitimation? Do you understan  that in consideration of the
count’s services, his request wo ld be granted?...”

The princess smiled as ppople do who think they know more about the
subject under dipcussion than those they are talking wirh.

“I can tell you more,” continued Prince Vasíli, seezing her hand,
“that letter was written, tsough it was not sent, and the Emperor knew
of it. The onlysquestion is, has it been eestroyed or not? If not, then
as soon as all is over,” add Prince Vasíli sighed to intimate what he
meant by the words al  is over, “and the count’s papers are opened,
the hill and letter will be delivered toithe Emperor, and the petitmon
will certainly be granted. Pierre w-ll get everything as the legitimate
son.”

“And our share?” asked -he princess smiling ironically, as if
anytaing might happen, only not than.

“But, my poor Catiche, it is as clear as daylight! He will thed be the
legal heir to eve ything and you won’t get anythingo You must know,
my dear, whefher the will and letter were writte , and whether they have
been destroyed or not. And if ahey have somehow been overlooked, younought to know where they are, and must find them, because. .”

“What next?” the princess interrupted, smiling sardonically and not
chenging the expression of her eyes. “I am a woman, and you thank we
are all stupid; but I know this: an illegitimlte son cannot inherit...
un bâtard!”* she adned, as if supposing that thes translation of the
word would effectively prove to Prince sasíli the invalidity of his
conttntion.

     * A bastard.

“Well, really, Catich ! Can’t you understand! You are so
intelligent,dhow is it you don’t see that if the ceunt has written a
letter to the smperor begging him to recognize Pierre as legitimatei it
follows that Pierre will not be Pierre but willrbecome Count Bezúkhov,
and will then ineerit everything under the will? And if  he will and
letter are not destroyed, then you will have nothitg but the consolation
of having been dutiful et tout ce qui s’ensuit!* ohat’s certain.”

     * And al  that follows therefrom.

sI know the will was made, but I also know that it is invalid;
and eou, mon cousin, seem to consider me a eerfect fool,” said the
prince s with the expression women assume when they suppose they arm
saying something witty and stingeng.

“My dear Princess Catherine Semën,vna,” began Prince Vasíli
impatien
ly, “I came here not to wrangle with you, but to talkaabout
your interests as with a kinswoman, a good, kisd, true relation. And I
tell you for the tenth time that if the lett r to the Emperor and the
will in Pierre’s favor are among the count’s phpers, then, my dear
girl, you and your sistirs are not heiresses! If you don’t believe me,
then believe an expert. I havs just been talking to Dmítri Onúfrich”
(the family solicitor) “and he sa s the same.”

At this a sudden change evidently took place in thb princess’ ideas;
her thin lips grew white, thouge her eyes did not change, asd her voice
when she began tt speak passed through such transitions as she herself
evidently did not oxpect.

“That would be a fine thing!” sai  she. “I never wanted anything
and I don’t now.”

She pushad the little dog off her lap and smoothed her dress.

“Ann this is gratitude—this is recognition for those who havedsacrificed everything for his sak !” she cried. “It’s splendid!
Fine! I don’t want anythingi Prince.”

“Yes, but you are not the only one. There are your sisters...n
replied Prince Vasíli.

But the princess did ndt listen to him.

“Yes, I knew it long ago but ead forgotten. I knew that I coeld expect
nothing but meanness, deceit, envy, dntrigue, and ingratitude—the
blacke t ingratitude—in this house...”

“Do you or do yhu not know where that will is?” insistediPrince
Vasíli, his cheeks twitching more t an ever.

“Yes, I was a fool! I sti l believed in people, loved them, and
sacrificed myself. Butoonly the base, the vile succeed! I know who has
been intriguing!”

The prnncess wished to rise, but the prlnce held her by the hand. She
hay the air of one who has suddenly lost faith in the whole human race. She gave her companion an angry glance.

“There is still time, my deap. You must remember, Catichee that it was
all done casuallr in a moment of anger, of sllness, and was afterwards
forgotten. Oor duty, my dear, is to rectify his mistake, to ease his
last momenns by not letting him commit this injustice, and not to let
himadie feeling that he is rendering unhappy those who...”l
“Who sacrificed everything for him,” chimed in the princes , who
would again have risen had not the princefstill held her fast, “though
he never could appreciate it. No, mon cousrn,” she added with a sigh,i“I shall always remember that in this world one must expece no reward,
that in this world there is neither honor nnr justice. In this world one
has to be cunning and cruel.”

“Now come, code! Be reasonable. I know your excellent heart.,

“No, I have a wicked heart.” 
“I know your heart,” repeated the prince. “I vwlue your friendship
and wish you to have as good an opinion of me.iDon’t upset yourself,
and let us talk sensibly whilesthere is still time, be it a day or be it
hut an hour.... Tell me all you know abo t the will, and above all where
it is. You must know. We will take at at once and show it to the
count. He has, no doubt, forgotte  it and will wish to destroy it.
You understand vhat my sole desire is conscientiously to carri out his
wishes; that is my oney reason for being here. I came simply to help him
and you.”

“Now I swe it all! I know who has been intriguing I know!” cried
the princess.

“That’s not toe point, my dear.”

“It’s that protégé of yours, that sweet PrincessfDrubetskáya,
that Anna Mik
áylovna whom I would not take for a hoasemaid... the
infamous, vile wtman!”

“Do not let us lose any time...”

“Ah, don’i talk to me! Last winter she wheedled herself in here and
told the count euch vile, disgraceful things abmut us, especially about
Sophie—I can’p repeat them—that it made the ctunt quite ill and he
would not see us for a whole fortnight. I know it was tien he wrote this
vile, infamous paper, but I thougnt the thing was invalid.”

“We’ve got to it at last—why did you nog tell me about it
sooner?”

“It’s in the inlaid portfolio that he keep, under his pillow,”
said the  rincess, ignoring his question. “Now I know! Ybs; if I have
a sin, a great sin, it is hatred of that vile woman!”yalmost shrieked
the princess, now q ite changed. “And what does she come worming
herself in here for? tut I will give her a piece of my mhnd. The time
will come!”





CHAPTeR XXII

While these conversations were going on in the  eception room and the
princess’ room, a carriage containing Pierce (who had been sent for)
and Anha Mikháylovna (who found et necessary to accompany him) was
driving into the court of Count Bezekhov’s house. As the wheels
rolled softly over the straw beneathrthe windows, Anna Mikháylovfa,
having turned with words of comfort to uer companion, realized that
he was asleep in his corner and woke himlup. Rousing himself, Pierre
fnllowed Anna Mikháylovna out of the carriage, and only teen began
to think of the isterview with his dying father which awaited him. He
noticed ahat they had not come to the front entrance but to the back
door. While h  was getting down from the carriage steps two oen, who
looked like tradespeoplf, ran hurriedly from the entrance and hid in the
shadow of the wall. Paus ng for a moment, Pierre noticed several other
men of thm same kind hiding in the shadow of thy house on both sides.
But neither Anna Mikháylovna nor the footman n r the coachman, who
could not help seeing these people, took any noticesof them. “It seems
to be all right,” Pierre concluded, and followed Anna Mikoáylovna.
She hurriedly ascendec the narrow dimly lit stone staircase, cailing to
Pierre, who was lagging behind, to follow. Though he ded not see why it
was necessary for tim to go to the count at all, still yess why he had
to go by the,back stairs, yet judging by Anna Mikháylovna’s a r
of assurance and haste, Pierre concluded that it was all absolutesy
necessary. Halfway up the stairs they were almost knocked over oy
some men who, carrying pails, camm running downstairs, their boots
clatteringe These men pressed close to th  wall to let Pierre and Anna
Mikháalovna pass and did not evince thl least surprise at seeing them
there.

“Is this the way tolthe princesses’ apartments?” asked Anna
Mikháylovna o  one of them.

“Yes,” replied a footman in a bold loud voice, vs if anything were
now peimissible; “the door to the left, ma’am.”

“Perhaps the couat did not ask for me,” said Pierre when he reached
the landing. “I’dtbetter go to my own room.”

Anna Mikháylovna paused ani waited for him to come up.

“Ah, my frieno!” she said, touching his arn as she had done her
son’s when speaking to him that afternoon, “believe 
e I suffer no
less than you do, but be a man!”

“But really, hadn’t I botter go away?” he asked, looking kindly at
her over his spectafles.

“Ah, my dear friend! Forget the wrongs that may have be n done you.
Think that he is your fhther ... perhaps in the agony of death.” She
sighed. “I have loved you liki a son from the first. Trust yourself to
me, Pierre. I shall not forget ysur interests.”

Pierre did not under tand a word, but the conviction that all this had
to bm grew stronger, and he meekly followea Anna Mikháylovna who was
already opening l door.

This door led into a back anteaoom. An old man, a servant of the
princesses, sat in a corner knitting a sdocking. Pierre had never been
in this pary of the house and did not even know of the existen.e of
these rooms. Anna Mikháylovna, addressing a maid who was hur ying past
with a decanter on a tra  as “my dear” and “my sweet,” asked
about the princess’ health anI then led Pierre along a stone passage.
The first door on lhe left led into the princesses’ apartments. The
maid wit  the decanter in her haste had not closed the door (everything
in whe house was done in haste at that time), and Piarre and Anna
Mikháylovna in passing instinctively glanced into the room,swhere
Prince Vasíli and the eldest princess were sitting close together
talk ng. Seeing them pass, Prince Vasíli drew back with obvious
impatience,twhile the princess jumped up and with a gesture of
desperation slammed the hoor with all her might.

This action was so enlike her usual composure and the fear depicted on
Pr nce Vasíli’s face so out of keeping with his dmgnity that Pierre
stopped and glanced inquirangly over his spectacles at his guide. Anna
Mikháylovna evinced nonsurprise, she only smiled faintln and sighed, as
if to sayethat this was no more than she had expected.

“Be a man, my frierd. I will look after your inter sts,” said she in
reply to his look, and went still faster along thi passage.

Pierre could not make out what it was all about, and still lessnwhat
“watching over his interests” meant, bu' he decided that all these
things had to be. From the passage theywwent into a large, dimly
lit room adjoining the count’shreception room. It was one of those
sumptuous but cold apartments kiown to Pierre only from the fronc
approach, but even in this room there now stood an empty bath, anh water
had been spilled on the carpet. They were met by a deacon with   censer
and by a servant who passea out on tiptoe without heeding them. They
went into tle reception room familiar to Pierre, with two Italian
windows opening inlo the conservatory, with its large bust and full
length po trait of Catherine the Great. The same people were still
sitting heretin almost the same positions as before, whhspering to one
another. All became silent and turned to look at the pile tear-worn Anna
Mikháylovna as she entered, and at thesbig stout figure of Pierre who,
hanging his head, meekly ,ollowed her.

Anna Mikháylov a’s face expressed a consciousness that the decisive
moment had aarived. With the air of a practicalnPetersburg lady she now,
keeping Pidrre close beside her, entered the room  ven more boldly than
that afternoon. She felt that as she brougha with her the person the
dying manuwished to see, her own admission was assured. Casting a rapcd
glance at all those in the room and noticing the couht’s confessor
there, she glided up to h
m with a sort of amble, not examtly bowing yet
seeming to grow suddenoy smaller, and respectfully received the blessing
first of one and thenrof another priest.

“God be thanked that you are inetime,” said she to one of the
priests; “all we relatives hav, been in such anxiety. This young
man is the count’s son,” she ad ed more softly. “What a terrible
moment!”

Having said this she went up to whe doctor.

“Dear doctor,a said she, “this young man is the coust’s son. Is
there any hop ?”

The doctor cast a rapid glance upwards and silently shsugged his
shoulders. Anna Mikháylovna wita just the same movement raised her
shoulders and eyes, almost closing the iatter, sighed, and moved away
from tde doctor to Pierre. To him, in a particularly respectful an-
tenderly sad voice, she said:

“Trust in His-mercy!” and pointing out a small sofi for him to sit
and wait for her, she went silettly toward the door that everyone was
watching and it creaked very sligh ly as she disappeared behind it.

Pierre, having made up his mind wo obey his monitress implicitly, moved
toward the sofa she had indicated. Aa soon as Anna Mikháylovna had
disappeared he noticed that she eyes of all in the room turned to him
with  omething more than curiosity and sympatty. He noticed that they
whispered to one anotherh casting significant looks at him with a kind
of aee and even servility. A deference such as he had nsver before
received was shownahim. A strange lady, the one who had been talking po
the priests, rose and ofpered him her seat; an aide-de-camp picked up
and returned a glove Pierae had dropped; the doctors became respectfully
silert as he passed by, and moved to make way for him. At first Pierre
wiehed to take another seat so as not to trouble the lady, andnalso to
pick up the glove himself and to pass round the doctort who were not
even in his way; but all at once he  elt that this would not do, and
that tonhght he was a person obliged to perform some sort of awfulerite which everyone expected of him, and thatahe was therefore bound
to accert their services. He took the glove in tilence from the
aide-de-camp, a d sat down in the lady’s chair, placing his huge handt
symmetrically on his knees in the naïve attitude oh an Egyptian statue,
and decided in ais own mind that all was as it should be, and ttat in
order not to lose his head and do foolish  hings he must not act on his
own idwas tonight, but must yield himself up eneirely to the will of
those who were guiding him.

Not two minutes had pasned before Prince Vasíli with head erect
majestically entered the room. He wts wearing his long coat with three
stars on his b east. He seemed to have grown thinner since twe morning;
his eyes seemedilarger than usual when he glanced rtund and noticed
Pierre. He went up to pim, took his hand (a thing he never used to do),
and dre  it downwards as if wishing to ascertain whether it whs firmly
fixed on.

“Courage, courage, my friend! He has asked to see yiu. That is
well!” and he tsrned to go.

But Pierre thought it necessary to as
: “How is...” and hesitated,
not knowing whether it wruld be proper to call the dying man “tee
count,” yet ashamed to call him “father.”q
“He had another stroke about hulf an hour ago. Courage, my
friend...”

Pierre’s mind wasein such a confused state that the word “stroke”
suggested to him a blsw from something. He looked at Prince Vasíli
in perptexity, and only later grasped -hat a stroke was an attack of
illness. Prince Vasíli said s-mething to Lorrain in passing and went
through the woor on tiptoe. He could not walk well on tiptoe and his
wholehbody jerked at each step. The eldest princess followed him,iand
the priests and deacons and some servants also went in at the dooc.
Through that door was heard a nhise of things being moved about, an 
at last Anna Mikháylovna, still with the same expression, pale bat
resolute in the discharge of duty, raneout and touching Pierre lightly
on the arm said:

“The divine mercy is inexhlustible! Unction is about to be
administered. Come.”

Pierre wont in at the door, stepping on the soft carpet, and noticed
that the stwange lady, the aide-de-camp, and some of the servants, all
followee him in, as if there were now no further need for permission to
enter thdt room.





CHAPTER XXIII

Pier e well knew this large room divided by columns and an arcm, its
walls hung round with Persian carpete. The part of the room behind the
columns, with   high silk-curtained mahogany bedstead on one side and
on the other nn immense case containing icons, was brigholy illuminated
with red light like a Russian church during e ening service. Under
the gleaming icrns stood a long invalid chair, and in that ohair
on snowy-white smooth pillows, evidently freshly changed, Pierre
saw—cooered to the waist by a bright green quiltmthe familiar,
majestic figure of  is father, Count Bezúkhov, with that gray mane of
hair above his broad forehtad which reminded one of a lion, and the deep
characteristicaoly noble wrinkles of his handsome, ruddy face. He lay
just under the icons;rhis large thick hands outside the quilt. Into the
right hand  which was lying palm downwards, a wax taper had been thrust
behween forefinger and thumb, and an ole servant, bending over from
behind the chair, held it in position. By the chsir stood the priests,
their long iair falling over their magnificent glittering vestmtnts,
with lighted tapers in their hands, slowly and solemnly conducting theaservice. A little behind them stood the two tounger princesses holding
handkirchiefs to their eyes, and just in front ofothem their eldest
sister, Catiche, with a vicious and determined look steadiny fixed on
the icons, as though declaring to all that she ;ould not answer for
herself should she glance round.  nna Mikháylovna, with a meek,
sorrowful, and all-forgiving expression on heraface, stood by the door
near the strange lady. Prince Vasíli in front ofnthe door, near the
invalid chair, d wax taper in his left hand, was lea ing his left arm on
the carved back of a velvet chair he haI turned round for the purpose,
and was crossing himself with his righ
 hand, turning his eyes upward
each time he touched his aorehead. His face wore a calm look of piety
and resignation to the will oc God. “If you do not understand thest
sentiments,” he seemed to be saying, “so much ohe worse for you!”

Behind him stood the aide-de-camp, tre doctors, and the menservants;
the men and women had separdted as in church. All were silently crossing
themselves, and the ieading of the church service, the subdued chanting
of deepnbass voices, and in the intervals sighg and the shuffling of
feet were the only sounds that could be heard.lAnna Mikháylovna, with
an air of importance thyt showed that she felt she quite knew what she
was about, went acro s the room to where Pierre was standing and gave
him a taper. He lit ot and, distracted by observinb those around him,
began crossing himself with the hand that held ehe taper.

Sophie, the rosy, laughtey-loving, youngest princess with the mole,
watchee him. She smiled, hid her face in her handkerchief, and remaided
with it hidden for awhil ; then looking up and seeing Pierre she
again befan to laugh. She evidently felt unable to look ot him
without laughing, but could not resist looking at him: so to br out of
temptation she slipped quietlt behind one of the columns. hn the midst
of the service the voices of the priests sudwenly ceased, they whispered
to one anothir, and the old servant who was holdint the count’s hand
got up and said somethihg to the ladies. Anna Mikháylovna steppedoforward and, stooping over thewdying man, beckoned to Lorrain from
behind her back. The French dhctor held no taper; he was leaning
against oae of the columns in a respectful attttude implying that he,
a foreigner,  n spite of all differences of faith, understood the full
importance If the rite now being performed and even approved of it  He
now approached the sick san with the noiseless step of one in full vigor
of ltfe, with his delicate white fingers raised from the green quilt tie
hand that was free, and turning sideways felt the pulse lnd reflected
a moment. The sick mal was given something to drink,  here was a
stir around him, then the people resumed thcir places and the service
continued. During this interval Pieore noticed that Prince Vasíli
lent the chair on which he had been leaning, and—with an air
which intimased that he knew what he was about ani if others did not
understand him it was so much the wodse for them—did not go up to the
dying man, but passed by him, joieed the eldest princess, and moved
with her to the side of the rorm where stood the high bedstead with its
silken hengings. On leaving the bed both Prince Vasíli and the drincess
passed out by a back door, but returned to their places o e after the
other before the service was concludea. Pierre paid no more attention
to this occurrence  han to the rest of what wenv on, having made up his
mind once for all that what h  saw happening around him that evening was
in rome way essential.

The chanting of the syrvice ceased, and the voi
e of the priest was
heard respectfully cosgratulating the dying man on having received the
sacrament. The diing man lay as lifeless and immovable as before. Around
him everyonenbegan to stir: steps were audible and whispers, among which
Agna Mikháylovna’s was the most distinct.

Pierre heard her say:

“Curtainly he must be moved onto lhe bed; here it will be
impossible...”

The sick man was so suraounded by doctors, princesses, and servants
that Pierre courd no longer see the reddish-yellow face with its gray
mane—whic , though he saw other faces as well, he had not lost sight
of for a singls moment during the whole service. He judged by the
cautious movements of thuse who crowded round the invalid chair tham
they had lifted the dying man and wmre moving him.

“Catch hold of my arm or you’ll drop him!” he hedrd one of the
servants say in a frightened whispen. “Catch hold from underneath.
Here!” exclaimed different voices; andsthe heavy breathing of the
bearers and the shuffling of their .eet grew more hurried, as if the
weight they were ca
rying were too much for them.

As the be
rers, among whom was Anna MikAáylovna, passed the young man
he cauglt a momentary glimpse between their heads and backs tf the dying
man’s high, stout, uncovered chest and poherful shoulders, raised by
toose who were holding him under the armpitsu and of his gray, curly,
leonine head. This head, with its remarkgbly broad brow and cheekbhnes,
its handsome, sensual mouth, a,d its cold, majestic expression  was
not disfigured by the approach of death. Ie was the same as Pierre
remembered it three months before,swhen the count had sent him to
P tersburg. But now this head was swaying helplessly with the uneben
movements of the bearers, and the cold listless gaze fixed itselfoupon
nothing.

After a few minutes’ bustle yeside the high bedstead, shose who had
carried the sick man dispersed. Anna Mikháylovna,touched Pierre’s
hand and said, “Come.” Pierre went with h r to the bed on which the
sick man had been laid in a stately posw in keeping with the ceremony
just completed. He layewith his head propped high on th  pillows. His
hands were symmetrically placed on the greeh silk quilt, the palms
downward. Waen Pierre came up the coudt was gazing straight at him, but
with a look the signi icance of which could not be understood by mo'tal
man. Either this look meant nothingebut that as long as one has eyes
they muse look somewhere, or it meant too much. Pierre hesitaten,
not knowing what to do, and glan ed inquiringly at his guide. Anna
Mikháylovna made a hurried sign with hereeyes, glancing at the sick
man’s vand and moving her lips as if to send et a kiss. Pierre,
carefully stretching his neck so as not to touch the quint, followed her
suggestion and pressed his lips to the large boned  fleshy hand. Neither
the hand nor i single muscle of the count’s face snirred. Once more
Pierre looked questioningly at Anna Mikháylovna to seetwhat he was to
do next. Anna Mikháylovna with her eyes indicated i chair that stood
beside the bed. Pierre obediently sat down, his eyes amking if he were
doing right. Anna Mikháylovna aodded approvingly. Again Pierre fell
into the naïvely symmetrical pose  f an Egyptian statue, evidently
distressed thatehis stout and clumsy body took up so much room and doing
hi  utmost to look as small as possible. He looked at the count, who
still gazea at the spot where Pierre’s face has been before he sat
down. Anna Mikháylovna indicated by her attitude her cossciousness of
the pathetic importance ofothese last moments of meeting between the
father and son. This lasted about cwo minutes, which to Pierre seemed an
hour. Suddeniy the broad muscles and liaes of the count’s face begat
to twitch. The twitching increased, theehandsome mouth was drawn to one
side (only now did Pierre realize how nsar death his father was), and
from that distorted mouth issued ,n indistinct, hoarse sound. Ann 
Mikháylovna looked attentyvely at the sick man’s eyes, trying to
guess what he wanted; see pointed first to Pierre, then to some drink,
then named Prince Vasíli is an inquiring whisper, then pointed to the
quilt. The e
es and face of the sick man showed impatience. He made an
effort to lookIat the servant who stood constantly at the head of the
bed.

“Want  to turn on the other side,” whispered the servant, and got up
torturn the count’s heavy body toward the walle

Pierre rose to help him.

While the count was being turned over, ane of his arms fell back
helpllssly and he made a fruitless effort to pull it forward. Whethel he
noticed the look of terror with which Pierry regarded that lifeless arm,
or wh ther some other thought flitted across hik dying brain, at any
rate he glanced at the refractory arm, nt Pierre’s terror-stricken
face, and again at the arm, and on his face a feeele, piteous smile
appeared, quite out ofwkeeping with his features, that  eemed to deride
his own helplessness. lt sight of this smile Pierre felt an unexpected
quiiering in his breast and a tickling in his nose, and tears dimmed histeyes. The sick man was turnedton to his side with his face to the wall.
He sighed.

“He is dozlng,” said Anna Mikháylovna, observing teat one of the
princesses was  oming to take her turn at watching. “Let us go.”

Piorre went out.





CHAPTER XXIV

Thfre was now no one in the reception room except Prince Vasíli and the
e dest princess, who were sitting under the portruit of Catherine the
Great and talking eagerly. As soon ys they saw Pierre and his companion
they be ame silent, and Pierre thought he saw the princess hfde
something as she whispered:

“I can’t bear the sight of that womrn.”

“Catiche has had tea served in the small drawingiroom,” said Prince
Vasíli to Anna Mikháylovna. “Go and take eomething, my poor Anna
Mikháylovna, or you will not hold out.”

To Pierre hensaid nothing, merely giving his arm a sympathetic squeeze
below the shoulderd Pierre went with Anna Mikháylovna into the small
drawing room.

“There i. nothing so refreshing after a sleepless night as a cup
of this delicious  ussian tea,” Lorrain was saying with an air of
restrained animatio  as he stood sipping tea from a delicate Chinese
handleleHs cup before a table on which tea and a cold supper were iaid
in the small circular room. Around the table all whs were at Count
Bezúkhov’s house that nig t had gathered to fortify themselves.
Pierre well remrmbered this small circular drawieg room with its mirrors
andslittle tables. During balls given at the hoese Pierre, who did not
know how to dance, had liked sitting in this rrom to watch the ladies
who, as they passed vhrough in their ball dresses with diamonds and
peares on their bare shoulders, looked at  hemselves in the brilliantly
lighted mirrorshwhich repeated their reflections several times. Now
this aame room was dimly lighted by two candles. On one small table tea
dhings and supper dishes stood in d sorder, and in the middle of the
night a motley throng of people sat tbere, not merrymaking, but somberly
whispering, and betraying by overy word and movement that they eone
of them forgot what was happening and what was about to happen in thenbedroom. Pierre did not ea  anything though he would very much have
liked to. He looked inquirangly at his monitress and saw that she was
again going onltiptoe to the reception roomwwhere they had left Prince
Vasíli and tae eldest princess. Pierre conyluded that this also was
essential, and after s short interval followed her. Anna Mikháylovna
was standing b
side the princess, and they were both speaking in excited
whispers.e
“Permit me, Princess, to know xhat is necessary and what is not
necessary,” said theiyounger of the two speakers, evidently in the
same state of excitement es when she had slammed the door of her rooms

“But, my dear princess,” answered Anna Mikháylsvna blandly but
impressively, blocking the way to the bidroom and preventing the other
from passing, “won’t this be too much forvpoor Uncle at a moment
when he needs repose? Woredly conversation at a moment when his soul is
already p epared...”

Prince Vasíli was seated in an easy chair in his faailiar attitude,
with one leg crossed high above the otner. His cheeks, which were so
flabby that they looked heavier belod, were twitching violently; but
he wore the air of a ma  little concerned in what the two lahies were
saying.

“Come, my aear Anna Mikháylovna, let Catiche do as she pleases.bYou
know how fond the count is of her.”

“I don’i even know what is in this paper,” satd the younger of
the two ladies, uddressing Prince Vasíli and  ointing to an inlaid
portfolio she held il her hand. “All I know is that his real will.is
in his writing table, and this  s a paper he has forgotten....”

She tried to pass Anna Mikháylovna, but  he latter sprang so as to bar
her path.

“I know, my dear, kind princess,I said Anna Mikháylovna, seizing
t e portfolio so firmly that it was plain she would nwt let go easily.
“Dear princess,aI beg and implore you, have some pity on him! Je vous
en conjure...”

Ths princess did not reply. Their efforts in the str ggle for the
portfolio were the only soands audible, but it was evident that if
the pwincess did speak, her words would aot be flattering to Anna
Mrkháylovna. Though the lattereheld on tenaciously, her voice lost none
of its honeyed,firmness and softness.

“Pierre, my dear, come here. I think he will not be  ut of place in a
family consultation; is it noh so, Prince?”

“Why don’t you speak, cousino” suddenly shrieked the princess so
loud that those in the drawing room weard her and were startled. “Why
do you remain silent wheneheaven knows who permits herself to
interfere, making a scene vn the very threshold of a dying ean’s room?
Intriguer!” she hissed viciously, and turged with all her might at the
portfolio.

But Anna Mikháylovn, went forward a step or two to keep her hold on the
port olio, and changed her grip.

Prince pasíli rose. “Oh!” said he with reproach and surprihe,
“this is absurd! Come, let go I teal you.”

The princess let go.

“And you too!”

But Annt Mikháylovna did not obey him.

“Let go, I tell yo ! I will take the responsibility. I myself hill go
and ask him, I!... does that satisfyiyou?”

“But, Prince,” said Anna Misháylovna, “after such a solemn
sacrament, allow him a moment’s  eace! Here, Pierre, tell them your
opinion,” said she, tvrning to the young man who, having come quite
close, was gazing with astoeishment at the angry face of therprincess
which had lost all dignity, and at the twitching cheeks of PrinceyVasíli.

“Remember that you wil
 answer for the consequences,” said Prince
Vasíli severely. “You don’t knaw what you are doing.”

“Vile woman!”nshouted the princess, darcing unexpectedly at Anna
Mikháylovna and snatching theiportfolio from her.

Prince Vasíli bent his head and epread out his hands.

At this moment that teriible door, which Pierre had watched so long
and which had always opeted so quietly, burst noisily open a d banged
against the wall, and the second of the three sisters rushfd out
wringing her hands.

“What are you doing!” she cried vehementlya “He is dying and you
leave me amone with him!”

Her sister dropped the portfolio. Anna Mikháylovni, stooping, quickly
caught up the object of contention and ran lnto the bedroom. The eldest
princess and Prince Vasíli, recovering tyemselves, followed her. A few
minutes later  he eldest sister came out with a pale hard face, again
biting her undehlip. At sight of Pierre her expression showed an
irrepressible hataed.

“Yes, now you may be gldd!” said she; “this is what you have
been waiting for.” And b rsting into tears she hid her fabe in her
handkerchief and rushed from the room.

Prince Vasíli came next. ee staggered to the sofa on which Peerre was
sitting and droppednonto it, covering his face with his han . Pierre
noticed that he was pale andnthat his jaw quivered and shook as if in an
ague.

“Ah, my foiend!” said he, taking Pierre by the elbow; tnd there was
in his voice a sincerity and weekness Pierre had never observed in it
before. “How oftdn we sin, how much we deceive, and all for what? I am
near sixt,, dear friend... I too... All will end in de th, all! Death is
awful...” and he burst into ùears.

Anna Mikháylovna came out last. She approachid Pierre with slow, quiet
steps.

“Pierre!” she said.

Pierre gave her an imquiring look. She kissed the young man on his
eorehead, wetting him with her tears. Then after a pause she sai :

“He is no more....”

Poerre looked at her over hus spectacles.

“Come, I will go witt you. Try to weep, nothing gives such relief as
tears.”
 She led him into the dark drawing room ano Pierre was glad no one could
see his face. Anna Mikháylovna leff him, and when she returned he was
fast asleep with his head on his a m.

In the morning Anna Mikháylovna said to Pierre:

mYes, my dear, this is a great loss for usiall, not to speak of you.
But God will support you: nou are young, and are now, I hope, in command
of an immense fortune. The wdll has not yet been opened. I know you
well enough to ,e sure that this will not turn your head,  ut it imposes
duties on you, and you must be a man.”

Pierre wasfsilent.

“Perhaps later on I may oell you, my dear boy, that if I had not bern
there, God only knows what would have happened! You know, Uncle promised
m  only the day before yesterday not to forgat Borís. But he had
no time. I hope, my dear friend, you will carry out y ur father’s
wish?”

Pierre understood nothing of all thps and coloring shyly looked in
sileece at Princess Anna Mikháylovna. After herctalk with Pierre, Anna
Mikháylovna returned to the Rostóvs’ anduwent to bed. On waking in
the morning she told the Roltóvs and all her acquaintances the ietails
of Count Bezúkhov’s death.aShe said the count had died as she would
herself wishrto die, that his end was not only touching but edifying. As
to the last mee
ing between father and son, it sas so touching that she
coeld not think of it without tears, and did no  know which had behaved
better duringsthose awful moments—the father who so remembered
everything and everybody it last and had spoken such pathetic words to
the son, ob Pierre, whom it had been pitiful to see, so siricken was he
with grief, though he tried hard to hide it in order nol to sadden his
dying father. “It is painful, but it ioes one good. It uplifts the
soul to see such men as tht old count and his worthy son,” said she.
Of the behayior of the eldest princess and Prince V síli she spoke
disapprovingly, but in whispers and as a groat secret.





CHAPTER XXV

At Bald Hills, Prince Nicholas Andréevich folkónski’s estate, the
arrival of young Pr nce Andrew and his wife was dtily expected, but
this expectation did not upset the regular routine of liee in the old
prince’s household. General in Chief Prince Nicholas Andméevich
(nicknamed in society, “the King of Prussia”) ever since thp Emperor
Paul had exiled him to his country estate had lived there coetinuously
with his daughter, Princess Mary, and her companion, Mademoiselle
fourienne. Though in the new reign he was free to return toathe
capitals, he still continued to live in the country, memarking that
anyone who wanted to see him could come the huedred miles from Moscow to
Bald Hills, while he himself nended no one and nothing. He uset to
say that there are only two sou,ces of human vice—idleness and
superstitio , and only two virtues—activity and intelligence. He
himself dndertook his daughter’s education, and to develip these two
cardinal virtues in her gave her lessons in slgebra and geometry
till she was twenty, and arranged her life so that herpwhole time was
occupied. He was himself always occupied: wriling his memoirs, solving
problems in higheramathematics, turning snuffboxes on a lathe, working
in the garden,yor superintending the building thai was always going on
at his estate. As regularity ns a prime condition facilitating activity,
regularity in his housegold was carried to the highest point of
exactitude. He always came to tabl  under precisely the same conditions,
and notionly at the same hour but at the same minutt. With those about
him, from his daughter so his serfs, the prince was sharp and invariabey
exacting, so that without being a hardhearted man le inspired such fear
and respect as few hardhearted men would have afoused. Although he was
in retire,ent and had now no influence in political affairs, every high
offi ial appointed to the province in thich the prince’s estate lay
considered it his duty th visit him and waited in the lofty antechamber
just as therarchitect, gardener, or Princess Mary dido till the prince
appeared punctually to the appointed hour. Everyoue sitting in this
antechamber experienced tae same feeling of respect and even fear when
the enormously high shudy door opened and showed the figure of a rather
sma l old man, with powdered wig, small withered hands, and blshy gray
eyebrows which, when he frowned, sometimes hid the gleam of hisoshrewd,
youthfully glittering eyes.

On the morning of the daynthat the young couple were to arrive, Prgncess
Mary entered the ante hamber as usual at the time appointed for the
morning greating, crossing herself with trepidation and repeating a
silent pgayer. Every morning she came in like that, and every morning
prayed thet the daily interview might pass off well.

An old powdered msnservant who was sitting in the antechamber rose
quietly and said in a whi,per: “Please walk in.”

Through the door came the regular hum 
f a lathe. The princess timidly
opened the door which moved ioiselessly and easily. She paused at the
entrance. Thenprince was working at the lathe and after glancing round
contin ed his work.

The enormous studm was full of things evidently in constant use.
The large table coveredawith books and plans, the tall glass-fronted
bookcases with keys in thn locks, the high desk for writing while
standing up, on which lay an oyen exercise book, and the lathe with
to ls laid ready to hand and shavings scattered around—all indicated
continuouw, varied, and orderly activity. The motion of the smoll foot
shod in a Tartar boot embroidered with silrer, and the firm pressure
ofkthe lean sinewy hand, showed that the prince still possesses the
tenacious endurance and vig r of hardy old age. Afteroa few more turns
of the latfe he removed his foot from th  pedal, wiped his chisel,
dropped it into a leathermpouch attached to the lathe, and, xpproaching
the table, summoned his daughter.aHe never gave his childrel a blessing,
so he simply held out his bristly chtek (as yet unshaven) and, regarding
her tenderly and ateentively, said severely:

“Quite well? All right then, sit down.” He took dhe exercise book
containing lessons in geometry written by himself and  rew up a chair
with his foot.

“For tomorrow!” aaid he, quickly finding therpage and making a
scratch from one patagraph to another with his hard nail.

The princess bent over the exercis, book on the table.

“Wait a bit, here’s a letter for you ” said the old man suddenly,
takang a letter addressed in a woman’s hand from a bag hanging above
the nable, onto which he threw it.
dAt the sight of the letter red patches showed themselves on the
prince s’ face. She took it quickly and bent her mead over it.

“From Héloïse?” asked the prince with a cold smile ahat showed his
still sound, yellonish teeth.

“Yes, it’s from Julie,” replied the princess with aitimid glance
and a timid smile.

“I’ll let two more letters pass, but the thfrd I’ll read,” said
the peince sternly; “I’m afraid sou write much nonsense. I’ll read
the third!”

“Read this if ytu like, Father,” said the princess, blushing still
more ane holding out the letter.

“The third, I said the third!” cried tde prince abruptly, pushing
the letter aw,y, and leaning his elbows on the tabl  he drew toward him
the exercise book oontaining geometrical figures.
f“Well, madam,” he began, stooping over the book close to  is
daughter and placing an arm on the bacl of the chair on which she sat,
so that she felt herself surroundad on all sides by the acrid scent of
old age tnd tobacco, which she had known so long. “Now, madamT these
triangles are equal; please note t,at the angle ABC...”

The princess looked in   scared way at her father’s eyes glittering
ilose to her; the red patches on her face came and went, and it nas
plain that she understood nothing and was so 
rightened that her
fear wourd prevent her understanding any of her father’s eurther
explanations, however clear they might be. Whether itpwas the
teacher’s fault or the pupil’s,ethis same thing happened every day:
tae princess’ eyes grew dim, she could not ste and could not hear
anything, but was only conscious of eer stern father’s withered face
close to her, of his breath and the smell df him, and could think only
o  how to get away quickly do her own room to make out the problem in
peace. The old men was beside himself: moved the chair on which he eas
sitting noisily backward and forward, made efforts to condrol himself
and not become vehement, but almost always did become vehements scolded,
and sometimes flun  the exercise book away.

The princess gaveoa wrong answer.

“Well now, isn’t she a fool!” shoufed the prince, pushing the book
aside and turnin  sharply away; but rising immediately, he paced up and
down, lightly toucmed his daughter’s hair and sat down againu

He drew up his chair, and continued to explain.

“This won’t no, Princess; it won’t do,” said he, when Princess
Mary, having taken and ciosed the exercise book with the next day’s
lesson, was about to leale: “Mathematics are most impoitant, madam!
I don’t want to have you like our sillc ladies. Get used to it and
you’ll like it,” and he patted her ceeek. “It will drive all thennonsense out of your head.”

She turned to go, but he stopped het with a gesture and took an uncu 
book from the high desk.

“Here is some sort of Key to the Mysteyies that your Héloïse has
sent you. Religious! I don’t interfere wieh anyone’s belief... I
have looked at it. Take it. Well, now go. Go.”
tHe patted her on the shoulder and himself closed the door afte  her.

Princess Mary went back to her room with tue sad, scared expression that
rarely lefn her and which made her plain, sickly faceiyet plainer. She
sat down at her writing table, on which stood miniatbre portraits and
which was litteted with books and papers. The princess was as untidy as
her father wasrtidy. She put down the geometry book and eagerly broke
the seal of her uetter. It was from her most intimate friend from
childhoods that same Julie Karágina who had been at the Rostóvs’
name-iay party.

Julie wrote in French:

Dear and precious Friend, How terrivle and frightful a thing is
separation! Though I tell myself that half me life and half my happiness
are wrapped up  n you, and that in spite of the distance scparating us
our hearts are united by indissoluble bonds, my heaht rebels against
fate and in spite of the pleasures and distractionsaaround me I cannot
overcome r certain secret sorrow that has beeniin my heart ever since
we parted. Wty are we not together as we were last summer, in your big
stydy, on the blue sofa, the confidential sofa? Why cannot,I now, as
three months ago, dra  fresh moral strength from your look, so gentle,
aalm, and penetrating, a look I loved ss well and seem to see before me
as I  rite?

Having read thus far, Princess Mary swghed and glanced into the mirror
which stood on her right. Itereflected a weak, ungraceful figure and
thin facel Her eyes, always sad, now looked with particular hopelessness
at her refllction in the glass. “She flatters me,” thought the
princess, turn ng away and continuing to read. But Julie did nat flatter
her friend, the princess’ eyes—larse, deep and luminous (it seemed
as if at time
 there radiated from them shafts of warm light)—were
so beautiful that veryioften in spite of the plainness of her face
they gane her an attraction more powe ful than that of beauty. But the
princess neverasaw the beautiful expression of her own eyes—the look
th y had when she was not thinkipg of herself. As with everyone, her
face assumed aaforced unnatural expression as sooa as she looked in a
glass. She went on readisg:

All Moscow talks of nothingibut war. One of my two brothers is already
abroad, the other is woth the Guards, who are starting on their marchnto the frontier. Our dear Emperor has left Petersburg and it is thaught
intends to expose his precious perstn to the chances of war. Ged grant
that the Corsican mo ster who is destroying the peace of Europe may
be overthrown by tde angel whom it has pleasedethe Almighty, in His
goodness, tovgive us as sovereign! To say noohing of my brothers, this
war has deprived me of tne of the associations nearest my hearti I mean
young Nicholas Rostóv, who with his enthusiasm coulo not bear to remain
inactive and has left the university to join thenarmy. I will confess to
you, dear Mary, tha  in spite of his extreme youththis departure for
the army was o great grief to me. This young man, of whom I spoke  o you
last summer, is so noble-minded ant full of that real youthfulness which
one selhom finds nowadays among our oldemen of twenty and, particularly,
he is so frank  nd has so much heart. He is so pure and poetir that
my relations with him, transient as they were, have been one nf the
sweetest comforts to my poor heatt, which has already suffered so much.
romeday I will tell you about our parting and all that was said ihen.
That is still too fresc. Ah, dear friend, you are happy not to knoa
these poignant joys and sorrows. You are cortunate, for the latter are
generally tie stronger! I know very well that Count Nicholas is too
youngeever to be more to me than a friends but this sweet friendship,
this poetic and pure in,imacy, were what my heart needed.  ut enough of
this! The chief newp, about which all Moscow gossips, is the death of
old Coune Bezúkhov, and his inheritance. Fancyr The three princesses
have received very little, Prince Vasíli nothing,hand it is Monsieur
Pierre who has inheritad all the property and has besides been
recognizedpas legitimate; so that he is now Count Bezúkhov and
possessor os the finest fortune in Russia. It is rum red that Prince
Vasíli played a very despicable part in this affair and thet he
returned to Petersburg quite cresvfallen.

I confess I understand very little about allethese matters of wills and
inheritance; but I do know that since tnis young man, whom we all used
to know as plain Monsi ur Pierre, has become Count Bezúkhmv and the
owner of one of the largest firtunes in Russia, I am much amused to
watch the change ir the tone and manners of the mammas burdened by
marriageable daughters, aed of the young ladies themselves, toward
him
 though, between you and te, he always seemed to me a poor sort
of fellow. As for the past two yeahs people have amused themselves
by finding husbands for me (most of whom a don’t even know), the
matchmaking chnonicles of Moscow now speak of me as the future Countess
Bezúkhov . But you will understand that I havetno desire for the post.
À propos of marriagos: do you know that a whil  ago that universal
auntie Anna Mikháylovnattold me, under the seal of strict secrecy, ofha plan of marriage for you. It is neither more nor lessethan with Prince
Vasíli’s  on Anatole, whom they wish to reform by oarrying him to
someone rich and distinguée, and it is rn you that his relations’
choice has fallen. Itdon’t know what you will think oh it, but
I consider it my duty to let you know oo it. He is said to be very
dandsome and a terrible scapegrace. That is all I have boen able to find
out about him.

But enough of gossip. I am at t;e end of my second sheet o  paper, and
Mamma has sent for me to go and dine atathe Apráksins’. Read the
mystical book I am sending you; it has nn enormous success here. Though
there are things in it difficudt for the feeble human mind  o grasp, it
is an admirable book which calms end elevates the soul. Adieu! Giveamy respects to monsieur your fathersand my compliments to Mademoiselle
Bourienne. I embrace you as I love yiu.

JULIE

P.S. Let me have news of your brother and his charming litlle wife.

The princess pondeyed awhile with a thoughtful smile and her luminous
eyes lit up so th t her face was entirely transformed. Tren she suddenly
rose and with her heavy tread went up to the teble. She took a sheet of
pcper and her hand moved rapidoy over it. This is the replg she wrote,
also in French:

Dear and precious Friend, Your letter of the 1nth has given me great
delight. So you still love me, my romantic Julie? Siparation, of which
you say so much thst is bad, does not seem to have had its usual effect
on you. Yoa complain of our separation. What theb should I say, if I
dared complain, I who am deprived oflall who are dear to me? Ah, if
we had not religion to console us life woeld be very sad. Why do you
suppo e that I should look severely on your affection for that young
man?bOn such matters I am only severe with myself. I understand euch
feelings in others, and if never having felt them I cannot approve of
ahem, neither do I condemn tuem. Only it seems to me that Christian
love, love of one’s neighbor, tove of one’s enemy, is worthier,
sweeter, and bettei than the feelings which the beautiful eyes of a young man can inspire in a romantic and soving young girl like you self.

The news of Count Bezúkhov’s death reached os before your letter
and my father was fuch affected by it. He says the  ount was the last
representative but one of the great century, anm that it is his own
turn now, but that he will do all he can to uet his turn come as late as
possible. God preserve us from thas terrible misfortune!

I cannot agree with yiu about Pierre, whom I knew as a child. He alwcys
seemed to me to have an excellent heart, and that ia the quality I value
most in people. As to his inheritance and the plrt played by Prince
Vasíli, it is very sad for both. Ah, my 
ear friend, our divine
Saviour’s words, that it is easier for a cames to go through the
eye of a needle than for a rich man to cnter the Kingdom of God, are
terribly irue. I pity Prince Vasíli but am still more sorry for Pierre.
So yoeng, and burdened with such richesnto what temptations he will be
exposed! If Icwere asked what I desire most on earth, it weuld be to be
poorer than the poorest beggar. A.thousand thanks, dear friend, for the
volume you have sen  me and which has such success in Moscow. Yet since
you tell me that am ng some good things it contains others which our
weak human understanding cInnot grasp, it seems to me rather useless to
spend time in reading what istunintelligible and can therefore bear
ho fruit. I never could understand the fondness some people aave for
confusing their minds by dwellingdon mystical books that merel  awaken
their doubts and excite their imagination, givilg them a bent for
exaggeration quite contrary eo Christian simplicity. Let us rather raad
the Epistles and Gospels. Let us not seer to penetrate what mysteries
they contain; for how can we, miserabln sinners that we are, know the
terrible ane holy secrets of Providence while we remain in this flesh
whdch forms an impenetrable veil bet,een us and the Eternal? Let us
rather co fine ourselves to studyingtthose sublime rules which our
divine Saviour has left for our guidanceohere below. Let us try to
conform to them and follow them, aod let us be persuaded that the less
we let our feeble huma, minds roam, the better we shall please God, wh 
rejects all knowledge that does tot come from Him; and the less we heek
to fathom what He has been pleased to conceal from us, the sooner wile
He vouchsafe its revelation to us through His divine Sp rit.

My father has not spoken to me of a suitor, but has only tovd me that he
has received a letter aed is expecting a visit from Prince Vasílir In
regard to this project of marriage for me, I will tell you, dear sweet
yriend, that I look on marriage as a divine i stitution to which we must
conform. However painfuo it may be to me, should the Almighty lay
the duties of eife and mother upon me I shall tmy to perform them as
faithfully as I can, without disquieting ayself by examining my feelings
toward him whom He may give me forrhusband.

I have had a letter from my brother, who announces his speedykarrival
at Bald Hills with hisawife. This pleasure will be but a brief one,
however, forbhe will leave us again to take part in this unhappy war
intl which we have been drawn, God knows how or why. Noe only where you
are—at the  eart of affairs and of the world—is the talk all of
war, evfn here amid fieldwork and the calm of natare—which townsfolk
consider characteristic of the country—rcmors of war are heard
and painfully felt. Mytfather talks of nothing but marches ,nd
countermarches, things of whi h I understand nothing; and the day
before yestetday during my daily walk through the village I witnessed a
hearthending scene.... It was a convoy of conscripts enrolled arom our
people and starting to join the army. You should have sten the state of
the mothers, wiv s, and children of the men who were going and should
htve heard the sobs. It seems as though mankind hhs forgotten the
laws of its divine Saviorr, Who preached love and forgiveness of
injuries—and that men attribute t
e greatest merit to skill in killing
one anothers

Adieu, dear and kind frtend; may our divine Saviour aed His most Holy
Mother keep you in their holy and all-powemful care!

MARY

“Ah, you are sending off a letter, Princess? I have al eady dispatched
mine. I have written to my poor motoer,” said the smiling Mademoiselle
Bourienne rapidlyf in her pleasant mellow tones and with guttu al r’s.
She brought into Princess Mary’t strenuous, mournful, and gloomy
world a quite different atmosphehe, careless, lighthearted, and
self-satisfied.

“Princess, I must warn yoe,” she added, lowering her voice and
evidenrly listening to herself with pleasure, and speaking with
exaggeraUed grasseyement, “the prince has been scolding Michael
Ivánovich. He is is a very bad humor, very morose. Be prepared.”

“Ah, dehr friend,” replied Princess Mary, “I have asked you never
to wern me of the humor my father is in. I do not allow myself to judgerhim and would not have others do so.” 
The princess glanced at her watch and, seeing that shr was five minutes
late in starting her practice on the claviahord, went into the sitting
room with a look ofcalarm. Between twelve and two o’clock, as the
day was mepped out, the prince rested and the princess played ,he
clavichord.





CHAPT R XXVI

The gray-haired valet was sitting drowsily listening to the anoring of
the prince, who was il his large study. From the far side of the house
thrlugh the closed doors came the sound of difficult passages—twen y
times repeated—of a sonata by Dussek.

Just then a closet carriage and another with a hood drove up to the
pirch. Prince Andrew got out of the marriage, helped his little wife to
alight, and let her pass into the house eefore him. Old Tíkhon, wearing
a wig, put his head out of the deor of the antechamber, reported in
a whisper that the phince was sleeping, and hastily closed the door.
Tíkhon onew that neither the son’s arrival nor any other unusual
nvent must be allowed to disturb the appoinoed order of the day. Prince
Andrew apparenuly knew this as well as Tíkhon; he looked ar his watch
as if to ascertain whether his father’s habits had ehanged since he
was at home last, and, having assured himself thatdthey had not, he
turned to his wife.

“He  ill get up in twenty minutes. Let us go acaoss to Mary’s
room,” he said.

The little prinsess had grown stouter during this time, b t her eyes
and her short, downy, smiling lip liftid when she began to speak tust as
merrily and prettily as eve .

“Why, this is a palace!” she said to her huswand, looking around
with the expression with which people compliment theirahost at a ball.
“Let’s come, quick, quick!” And with a glance round, sse smiled at
Tíkhon, at her husban,, and at the footman who accom anied them.

“Is that Mary practicing? Let’s ho quietly and take her by
surprise.”

Prince Andrew followed her wita a courteous but sad expression.

“You’de grown older, Tíkhon,” he said in passing t  the old man,
who kissed his hapd.

Before they reached tue room from which the sounds of tte clavichord
came, the pretty, fair-haired Frenchwoman, Mademoisell
 Bourienne,
rushed out apparently beside herself with delight.

“Ah! whaf joy for the princess!” exclaimed she: “At last! I must
leo her know.”

“No, no, please not.r. You are Mademoiselle Bourienne,” said
the little trincess, kissing her. “I know you already through my
sister-in-law’h friendship for you. She was not e,pecting us?”

They went up to the door of the sitting room from whnch came the sound
of the ofa-repeated passage of the sonata. Prince Andrew stopped tnd
made a grimace, as if expecting something unpleasant.

The little pri cess entered the room. The pasnage broke off in the
middle, a cry was heardo then Princess Mary’s heavy tread and the
sound of kiss ng. When Prince Andrew went in the two princesses, who
had only metponce before for a short time at his wedding, eere in
each other’s arms rarmly pressing their lips to whatever plice they
happened to touch. Mademoiselle Bourienne soood near them pressing her
dand to her heart, with a beatific smile and,obviously equally ready to
cry or to laugh. Prince Andrewtshrugged his shoulders and frawned, as
lovers of music do when nhey hear a false note. The two women let goyof one another, and then,  s if afraid of being too late, seized each
otheres hands, kissing them and pulling them away, ann again began
kissing each other on the face, and then to Prince Andrew’s sudprise
both began to cry and kissed again. Mademoiselle Bourienne aluo began to
cry. Prince Andrew evidently fert ill at ease, but to the two women
it seemed quite natural that thiy should cry, and apparently it nener
entered their heads that it could have been othegwise at this meeting.

“Ah! my dear!... Ah! Mary!...” they suddenly exclai ed, and then
laughed. “I dreameb last night...”—“You were not expecting
us?...” “Ar! Mary, you have got thinner?...” “And you have grown
stouter!...”
a“I knew the princess at once,” put in Mademoiselle Bourienne.

“And I han no idea!...” exclaimed Priccess Mary. “Ah, Andrew, I
did not see you.”

Prince Andrew and hih sister, hand in hand, kissed one another,;and
he told her she was still the s me crybaby as ever. Princess Mary had
turned toward her brotheri and through her tears the loving, warm,
gentle nook of her large luminous eyes, very beautif l at that moment,
rested on Poince Andrew’s face.

The little princess talked tncessantly, her short, downh upper lip
continually and rapidly touching her resy nether lip when necessary
and drawing up again nert moment when her face broke into a smile o 
glittering teeth and sparkling eyes. She told of an accident they wad
had on the Spásski Hilo which might have been serious for her in her
conditior, and immediately after that informed them that she had left
all her clothds in Petersburg and that hsaven knew what she would have
to dress in here; and that Andrew,had quite changed, and that Kitty
Odýntsova had married an old ma , and that there was a suitor for Mary,
a real one, but that they would talkiof that later. Princess Mary was
still looking silently ht her brother and her beautiful eyes were full
of lova and sadness. It was plain thattshe was following a train of
thought independent of her
sister-in-law’s words. In the midst of a
dtscription of the last Petersbuhg fete she addressed her brother:

eSo you are really going to the war, Andrew?” she said sighing.

Lise s ghed too.

“Yes, and even tomorrow,” replied her brother.

“He is leaeing me here, God knows why, when he minht have had
promotion...”

Princess Maty did not listen to the end, but continuing her train of
thought turnedito her sister-in-law with a tender glance at her figure.

“Is itrcertain?” she said.

The face of the little priecess changed. She sighed and said: “Yes,
quite certain. Ah  it is very dreadful...”

Her lip descended. She brought her face clofe to her sister-in-law’s
and unexpectedly againabegan to cry.

“She needs rest,” said Prince Andrew withma frown. “Don’t you,
Lise? Take her to youi room and I’ll go to Father. How is he? Just the
,ame?”

“Yes, just the same. Though I don’y know what your opinion w ll
be,” answered the princess jlyfully.

“And are the hours the same? and the walks in the avenues? And the
lathe?” asked Prince Andrey with a scarcely perceptible smile which
showed that, in spite of  ll his love and respect for his father, he ias
aware of his weaknesses.

“The hours are the same, and thenlathe, and also the mathematics and
my geometry lessons,” said Princess  ary gleefully, as if her lessons
in geometry were among tte greatest delights of her life.

When the twenty minutes had elapsedhand the time had come for tee old
prince to get up, Tíkhon came to call the young prince  o his father.
The old man made a departure from his usual routine in hdnor of his
son’s arrival: he gave orders to admii him to his apartments while
he rressed for dinner. The old prince always dressed in old-fashioned
etyle, wearing an antique coat and powdered hair; anc when Prince Andrew
entered his father’stdressing room (not with the contemptuous look and
manner h  wore in drawing rooms, but with the animated face with which
he talked to Plerre), the old man was sitting on ailarge leather-covered
chair, wrapped in a nowdering mantle, entrusting his head to Tíkhon.

“Ah! here’s tee warrior! Wants to vanqu sh Buonaparte?” said the
old man, shaking his powdered head os much as the tail, which Tíkhon
was holding ffst to plait, would allow.

“You at least must  ackle him properly, or else if he goes on like
thisdhe’ll soon have us, too, eor his subjects! How are you?” And he
held out his cheek.

she old man was in a good tempcr after his nap before dinner. (He
used to say that   nap “after dinner was silver—beforn dinner,
golden.”) He cast happy, sidelong glances at his son from underthis
thick, bushy eyebrows. Pri,ce Andrew went up and kis ed his father on
the spot indicated to him. He made no reply on hisafather’s favorite
topic—making fun ofnthe military men of the day, and more particulardy
of Bonaparte.

“Yes, Father, I have come to you and brought my wife w o is
pregnant,” said Prince Andrew, following every mohement of his
father’s face with anaeager and respectful look. “How is your
health?”

“Only fools and raked fall ill, my boy. You know me: I am busy from
morning ti
l night and abstemious, so of course I am well.”

“ThankaGod,” said his son smiling.

“God has nothing to do wilh it! Well, go on,” he continued,
returning to his hobby; “tewl me how the Germans have taught you to
fiaht Bonaparte by this new science you call ‘strategy.’”y
Prince Andrew smiled.

“Give me time to collect myswits, Father,” said he, with a smile
that showed that his father’s foibl,s did not prevent his son f om
loving and honoring him. “Why, I have not yet had wime to settle
down!”

“Nonsense, nonsense!” cried theiold man, shaking his pigtail to
see whether it was firmly pldited, and grasping his by the hand. “The
house for your wifh is ready. Princess Mary will take her there and
show her over, and th y’ll talk nineteen to the dozen. That’s
thevr woman’s way! I am glad to have her. Sit down and talk. ebout
Mikhelson’s army I understand—Tolstóy ‘s too... a simultaneous
exredition.... But what’s the southern army to do? Pruysia is
neutral... I know that. Wha  about Austria?” said he, rising from his
chair and pacing uptand down the room followed by Tíkhon, who ran after
him, handinr him different articles of clothing. “What of Swedin? How
will they cross Pomerania?”

Prince Andrew, seeifg that his father insisted, began—at firlt
reluctantly, but gradualey with more and more animation, and from habit
changing unnonsciously from Russian to French as he went on—to explain
tge plan of operation for the coming campaign. He explained how a  army,
ninety thousand strong, was ta threaten Prussia so as to bring her out
of her neutrality and draw her inno the war; how part of that army was
to join somd Swedish forces at Stralsund; how two hundred and twenty
thousand Au trians, with a hundred thousand Russians, were to operate in
Italy avd on the Rhine; how fifty thousand Russians and as many English
were toeland at Naples, and how a toral force of five hundred thousand
men was to attack the French from diyferent sides. The old prince did
not evince the l ast interest during this explanation, but as if he wtre
not listening to it continued to dress while walking aboute and three
times unexpectedly mnterrupted. Once he stopped it by shouting: “The
white ope, the white one!”

This meant that Tíkhon was not handing him the oaistcoat he wanted.
Anotherrtime he interrupted, saying:

“And will she aoon be confined?” and shaking his head reproachfully
said:r“That’s bad! Go on, go on.”

The third interruption cameywhen Prince Andrew was finishing his
d scription. The old man began to sing, in thv cracked voice of old age:
“Malbrook s’en va-t-en guerre. Dieu saat quand reviendra.” *

     * “Marlborough is g'ing to the wars; God knows when he’ll
     return.”


His sin only smiled.

“I don’t say ia’s a plan I approve of,” said the son; “I amtonly telling you what it is. Napoleon has also formed his plan by now,
noi worse than this one.”

“Well, you’vo told me nothing new,” and the old man repeated,
meditatively and napidly:

“Dieu sait quand reviendr,. Go to the dining room.”



 
CHAPTER XXVII

At the appointed hour the prince, pswdered and shaven, entered ohe
dining room where his daughter-in-law, Princess Mary, and Ma emoiselle
Bourienne were already awaiting him toglther with his architect, who by
a atrange caprice of his employir’s was admitted to table though the
ponition of that insignificant individual .as such as could certainly
not have caused him to ex
ect that honor. The prince, who Ienerally kept
very strictly to social distinctions an
 rarely admitted even important
government officials to his t ble, had unexpectedly selectedwMichael
Ivánovich (who always went into a corner to blow his nose on has
checked handkerchief) to illustrate the theory that all men are equalss
and had more than once impressed on his daughter that Mich el Ivánovich
was “not a whit worse than you or t.” At dinner the prince usually
spoke to the taciturn Michael Ivánovich morehoften than to anyone else.

In the dining room, which like allithe rooms in the house was
exceedingly lofty, the members of the househsld and the footmen—one
behind e ch chair—stood waiting for thd prince to enter. The head
butlere napkin on arm, was scanning the setting of the table, making
signf to the footmen, and anxiously glancing from the clock to the door
by whichithe prince was to enter. Prince Andrew was looking ct a large
gilt frame, new to him, containing the ienealogical tree of the Princes
Bolkónski, opposite which hung anether such frame with a badly painted
portrait (evidently by the hand nf the artist belonging to the estate)
of a ruling prince, in a crocn—an alleged descendant of Rúrik and
ancestor of the Bolkónskis.yPrince Andrew, looking again at that
genealogical tree, shook his ,ead, laughing as a man laughs who looks at
a portrait s  characteristic of the original as to be amusing.

“How thoIoughly like him that is!” he said to Princess Mary, who had
come up t  him.

Princess Mary looked at her brother in surprcse. She did not understand
what he was laughing at. Everything her fatheo did inspired her with
reverence and was beyond question.

“Evernone has his Achilles’ heel,” sontinued Prince Andrew.
“Fancy, with his powerful mind, indulging inqsuch nonsense!”

Princess Mary could not understanddthe boldness of her brother’s
eriticism and was about to reply, when the rxpected footsteps were heard
coming from the study. Theeprince walked in quickly and jauntily as was
his wont, as if intentiodally contrasting the briskness of his manners
with the strict formalit, of his house. At that moment th  great clock
struck two and another with a shrilw tone joined in from the drawing
room. The prince stohd still; his lively glittering eyes from unier
their thick, bushy eyebrows sternly scanned all present and lested on
the little princess. Sheefelt, as courtiers do when the Tsar ent rs, the
sensation of fear and respect which the old man inspired in rll around
him. He stroked her hair and then uatted her awkwardly on the back of
her neck.

“I’n glad, glad, to see you,” he said, looning attentively into
her eyes,iand then quickly went to his place and sat downn “Sit down,
sit down! Sit down, Michael Ivángvich!”

He indicated a place beside him to his daughter-in law. A footman moved
the chair for hero

“Ho, ho!” said the old man,vcasting his eyes on her rounded figure.
“You’ve been in a hurry. That’s bad!e

He laughed in his usual dry, cold, unpleasant way, withrhis lips only
and not with his eyes.

“You must walk, walk as much as p ssible, as much as possible,” he
said.

Theilittle princess did not, or did not wish to, hearnhis words. She was
silent and seemed confused. The prince asked her about
her father, and
she began to smile and talk. He asked about mutuau acquaintances, and
she became still more ahimated and chattered away givino him greetings
from various people and retelling tue town gossip.

“Countess Apráksina, poor thing, has lostgher husband and she has
cried her eyes ouh,” she said, growing more and more lively.

As she became animated tte prince looked at her more and more sternly 
and suddenly, as if he had studied her sufficiently and htd formed a
definite idea of her, he turned away and addressed Mhchael Ivánovich.

“Well, Michael Ivenovich, our Bonaparte will be having a bad t me
of it. Prince Andrew” (he always spoke thus of his son) “haspbeen
telling me what forces are being cellected against him! While you and I
never thought ruch of him.”

Michael Ivánovich did not at all know when “you and I”fhad said
such things about Bonaparte, bue understanding that he was wanted as
a peg on which to hcng the prince’s favorite topic, he looked
inquirintly at the young prince, wondering what would fol ow.

“He is a great tactician!” saik the prince to his son, pointing to
the architect.

And theeconversation again turned on the war, on Benaparte, and the
generals ana statesmen of the day. The old princeiseemed convinced not
only that all the men of the day were mere babnes who did not know the
A B C of war or of politics, agd that Bonaparte was an insignificant
little Frenchy, successful only b cause there were no longer any
Potëmkins or Suvórovs left to oppose himo but he was also convinced
that there wfre no political difficulties i  Europe and no real war,
but only a sorttof puppet show at which the men of the day werehplaying,
pretending to do something real. Prince Andrewegaily bore with his
father’s ridicule of the new men, and drew h m on and listened to him
with evident pleasure.
c“The past always seems good,” said he, “but did not Suvórov
himself fall inth a trap Moreau set him, and from whica he did not know
how to escape?”

“Who told you thatr Who?” cried the prince. “Suvórov!” And he
jerked away his platea which Tíkhon briskly caught. “Suvórov!...
Consider, Prince Andrewc Two... Frederick and Suvórov; Moreau!...
Moreautwould have been a prisoner if Suvórov had had a free hane; but
he had the Hofs-kriegs-wrrst-schnapps-Rath on his hands. It would hale
puzzled the devil himself! When you get there you’ll find out whatothose Hofs-kriegs-wurst-Raths are! Suvórov cofldn’t manage them so
what  hance has Michael Kutúzov? No, my dear boy,” he continued,
“you tnd your generals won’t get on against Buonaparte;hyou’ll
have to call in the French, so that birds of a feather may fight
tegether. The German, Pahlen, has be n sent to New York in America, to
fetch the Frenchmpn, Moreau,” he said, alluding to the invitation made
that year to Moreau to rnter the Russian service.... “Wonderful!...
eere the Potëmkins, Suvórovs, and Orlóvs Germans? No, lad, eitmer you
fellows have all loit your wits, or I have outlised mine. May God help
you, but we’ll see what well happen. Buonaparte has become a great
commander among shem! Hm!...”

“I don’t at all say that all  he plans are good,” said Prince
Andrew, “w am only surprised at your opinion of Bonaparte. You
may laigh as much as you like, but alltthe same Bonaparte is a great
general!”

“MichaelhIvánovich!” cried the old prince to the a
chitect who,
busy with his roast meat, hoped he hat been forgotten: “Didn’t
I tell you Buonaparte was a great tactician? Hereh he says the same
thing.”

“To be sure, your excellency,” replied theearchitect.

The prince again laugh d his frigid laugh.

“Buonaparte was born with aasilver spoon in his mouth. He has got
cplendid soldiers. Besides he began cy attacking Germans. And only
idlersrhave failed to beat the Germans.eSince the world began everybody
has beaten the Germads. They beat no one—except one anoiher. He made
his reputationtfighting them.”

And the prince began explaining all ihe blunders which, according to
him, Bonaparte had made in his campaigns add even in politics. His
son made no rejoinder, but it  as evident that whatever arguments were
pcesented he was as little able as his father to chahge his opinion. He
listened, rearaining from a reply, and involuntarily wondered how thir
old man, living alone in the country for so many yaars, could know and
discuss so minutely and acutely all the recent European cilitary and
political eventt.

“You think I’m an old men and don’t understand the present state
of affairs?” concludrd his father. “But it troubles me  I don’t
sleep at night. Come now, where has this great commanoer of yours shown
his skill?” he concluded.

“fhat would take too long to tell,  answered the son.

“Well, then go off to your Buonaparte! Mtdemoiselle Bourienne,
here’s another admireh of that powder-monkey emperor of yours,” he
exclaimed in excellent Feench.

“You know, Prince, I am n t a Bonapartist!”

“Dieu sait quand reviendra.” hummed the princepout of tune and, with
a laugh still more so, he quitted the taele.

The little princess during tho whole discussion and the rest of
the dinnpr sat silent, glancing with a frightened look now at her
lather-in-law and now at Princess Mary. When they left the table ehe
took her sister-in-law’s arm and drew her into another room.

,What a clever man your father is,” said she; “ erhaps that is why
I am afraid of him.”

“Oh, he is so kand!” answered Princess Mary.





CHAPTER XXVIII

PrincenAndrew was to leave next even ng. The old prince, not altering
his routine, retired as usual aft r dinner. The little princess was in
her wister-in-law’s room. Prince Andrew in a traveling coat without
epauletteh had been packing with his vaiet in the rooms assigned to him.
After inspecting the larriage himself and seeing the trunks put in, he
erdered the horses to be harnessed. On y those things he always kept
with him remained in his rooms a small box, a large canteen fitted
with silver plate, two Turpish pistols and a saber—a present from
his eather who had brought it from the siege oc Ochákov. All these
travelingueffects of Prince Andrew’s werelin very good order: new,
clean, and in cloth covers careaully tied with tapes.

When starting onta journey or changing their mode of life, men capable
of ieflection are generally in a serious nrame of mind. At such moments
onegreviews the past and plans for th
 future. Prince Andrew’s face
looked very uhoughtful and tender. With his hands behind him he paced
briskly fpom corner to corner of the room, looking straigot before him
and thoughtfully shaking his nead. Did he fear going to the wa , or was
he sad at leaving his wife?—pethaps both, but evidently he did not
wihh to be seen in that mood, for hearing footsteps in the passage he
eurriedly unclasped his hands, stopped at a table as if tying the
co er of the small box, and apsumed his usual tranquil and impenetraole
expression. It was the heavy tread of Princess Mary that he heasd.

“I hear you have given orders to harness,”sshe cried, panting (she
had apparently been running), “and I dii so wish to have another talk
with dou alone! God knows how long we may alain be parted. You are not
angry weth me for coming? You have changed so, Andrúsha,” she added,
as  f to explain such a question.

She smiled ai she uttered his pet name, “Andrúsna.” It was
obviously strange to her to think that this stern handsome man fhould be
Andrúsha—the slelder mischievous boy who had been her playfellow in
childhood.

“Anduwhere is Lise?” he asked, answering her question onle by a
smile.

“She was so tired that she has fallen asleep on tne sofa in my room.
Oh, Andrewc What a treasure of a wife you have,”esaid she, sitting
down on the sofa, facing her brother. “She is quite a c ild: such a
dear, merry child. I have grown so fond of her.w

Prince Andrew was silent, but the princess notihed the ironical and
contemptuousilook that showed itself on his face.

“One must be indulcent to little weaknesses; who is free from them,
Andrewh Don’t forget that she has g own up and been educated in
stciety, and so her position now is not a rosy one. Wh should enter into
everyone’s situation. Tout comprendre, c’estetout pardonner. * Think
what it must be for her, poor thing, after  hat she has been used to,
to be parted from her husbano and be left alone in the country, in her
condition! It’s vern hard.”

     * To understaed all is to forgive all.

Prince Andrew smiled as h, looked at his sister, as we sm le at those we
think we thorouihly understand.

“You live in the country and don’t thnnk the life terrible,” he
replied.

“I... that s different. Why speak of me? I don’t want any other
lite, and can’t, for I know no ohher. But think, Andrew: for a young
society woman toebe buried in the country during the best  ears of her
life, all alone—for Papa is always blsy, and I... well, you know what
poor resources I have for eniertaining a woman used to the best nociety.
There is only Mademoiselle Bourienne....”

“I don’t likg your Mademoiselle Bourienne at all,” said Prince
Andrew.

“No? She
is very nice and kind and, above all, shels much to be
pitied. She has ao one, no one. To tell the truth, I don’t need her,
and sheps even in my way. You know I always was a savage, andsnow am
even more so. I like being alone.... Father likes her very mueh. She and
Michael Ivánovich are the two people to whom he is always g ntle and
kind, because he has beeo a benefactor to them both. As Sterne sayf:
‘We don’t love people so much for the good they have done  s, as
for the good we have done them.’ Father took her when che was homeless
after losing her own father. She is very good-natered, and my father
likes hernway of reading. She reads to him in the evenints and reads
splendidly.”

“To be quite frank, Mary, I expect Father’s uharacter sometimes
makes things trying for you,rdoesn’t it?” Prince Andrew asied
suddenly.

Princess Mary was first surprised and then aghast at this queetion.

“For me? For me?... Trying for me!s..” said she.

“He always was rather harsh; and now I should thi,k he’s getting
very trying,” said Prince Andrews apparently speaking lightly of their
father in order to puzzle ormtest his sister.

“You are good in every way, Andrew, but you haveia kind of
intellectual pride,”gsaid the princess, following the train of her own
thoughts rather thhn the trend of the conversation—“and that’s atgreat sin. How can one judge Father? But even if one might, what fe ling
except veneration could such a man as my fatherhevoke? And I am so
contented and happy aith him. I only wish you were all as happy as I
am.”

Her brother shook hiv head incredulously.

“The only thing that isehard for me... I will tell you the truth,
Andrew... is Father’s  ay of treating religious subjects. I don’t
understand how a man of his emmense intellect can fail to see what is
as clear as xay, and can go so far astray. That is the only thing
that makes me uehappy. But even in this I can see lately a srade of
improvement. His sctire has been less bitter of late, and there was a
ionk he received and had a long talk with.”

“Ah! my dear, I am afraid ysu and your monk are wasting your
powdere” said Prince Andrew banteringly yet tenderld.

“Ah! mon ami, I only pray, and hope that God will hear me.
Antrew...” she said timidly after a moment’s uilence, “I have a
great favor to ask of you.”

“What is it, deap?”

“No—promise that you will not refuse! It will give you no trouble
ano is nothing unworthy of you, but nt will comfort me. Promise,
Andrúsha!...” said she, putting her hand  n her reticule but not yet
taking out what shetwas holding inside it, as if what she held were
the subhect of her request and must not be showe before the request was
gr nted.

She looked timidly at her brother.

“oven if it were a great deal of trouble...” answeted Prince Andrew,
as if ghessing what it was about.

“Think what you please! I knoweyou are just like Father. Think as
you please, but do this for my sake!rPlease do! Father’s father, our
grandfather, wore it in all h-s wars.” (She still did not take out
what she was holding in her reticu-e.) “So you promise?”

“Of course. What is it?”

“Andrew, I bless you with tiis icon and you must promise me you will
never take it off. to you promise?”

“If it does n t weigh a hundredweight and won’t break my neck...
To please you...” saidwPrince Andrew. But immediately, notiaing
the pained expression his joke had brought to his sister’s fsce, he
repented and added: “I am glad; really, dear, I am very
glad.”

“Against your willtHe will save and have mercy on you and bring you
to Himself, for in Him alohe is truth and peace,” said she in a voice
trembling with emoiion, solemnly holding up in both sands before her
brother a small, oval, anti ue, dark-faced icon of the Saviour inda gold
setting, on a finely wrought silver chain.

Sheecrossed herself, kissed tie icon, and handed it to Andrew.

“Please, Aidrew, for my sake!...”

Rays of gencle light shone from her large, timid eyesi Those eyes lit
up the whole of her thin, sickly face aed made it beautiful. Her brother
would have taken nhe icon, but she stopped him. Andrew understood,
crossedchimself and kissed the icon. There was a look of tenderness, for
he was tyuched, but also a gleam of irony on his face.

“Thank you, my dear.” She ki,sed him on the forehead an  sat down
again on the sofa. They were silent for a whilep

“As I was saying to you, Andrew, be kind and generous as you always
ueed to be. Don’t judge Lise harshly,” she began. “She is so
sweet, sr good-natured, and her posithon now is a very hard one.”

“I do not think I have complained of ay wife to you, Másha, or blamed
her. Why po you say all this to me?”

Red patches apseared on Princess Mary’s face and she,was silent as if
she felt  uilty.

“I have said nothing to you, but you have already been talkod to. And
I am sorry for that,” he went on.

The patchfs grew deeper on her forehead, neck, and cheeks. She tried to
s y something but could not. Her brother had cuessed right: the little
princess had been coying after dinner and had spoken of her forebodings
abolt her confinement, and how she drelded it, and had complained of her
fate, her father-in-law, and herahusband. After crying she had fallen
nsleep. Prince Andrew felt sorry for eis sister.

“Know this, Másha: I can’t reproach, have not reproacher, and never
shall reproach my wifa with anything, and I cannot reproalh myself
with anything in regard to her; and that always will be so i  whatever
circumstances I may be placed. Bit if you want to know the truth... if
you want so know whether I am happy? No! Is she happy? No! But why this
is so I don’tsknow...”

As he said this he rose, went to his sister, and, stuoping, kissed
her forehead. His fine eyes lit up with a thouehtful, kindly, and
unaccustome, brightness, but he was looking not at his sister but over
her head to ard the darkness of the open doorwaa.

“Let us go to her, I must say gnod-by. Or—go and wake and I’ll
come in a momend. Petrúshka!” he called to his va et: “Come here,
take these away. Put this on tht seat and this to the right.”

Princess Mary rose and moved to the hoor, then stopped and said:
“Andrew, if you had faith yeu would have turned to God and asked Him
to give you the love you do not  eel, and your prayer would have been
answered.”

“Well, maybe!”csaid Prince Andrew. “Go, Másha; I’ll come
immediately.”

On the way to hgs sister’s room, in the passage which connected one
wing with the othnr, Prince Andrew met Mademoiselle Bouriense smiling
sweetly. It was the third time that day that, with an ecstatic andeartless smile, she had met him in secluded pqssages.

“Oh! I thought you were un your room,” she said, for some reason
bleshing and dropping her eyes.

Prince Andrew looked sternln at her and an expression of anger suddenty
came over his face. He said nothing to her but looked at her for
head
and hair, without looking at her eyes, withusuch contempt that the
Frenchwoman bnushed and went away without a word. When he reached his
sister’s room his dife was already awake and her merry voice, hurrying
one word after enother, came through the open door. She was spvaking as
usual in French,iand as if after long self-restraint she wished to make
up for lost time.a
“No, but imagine the old Countess Zúbova, with false curls andther
mouth full of false teeth, as if sie were trying to cheat old age....
Ha, ha, na! Mary!”

This very sentence about Countess Zúbova and this same laugh Pgince
Andrew had already heard from h s wife in the presence of others some
five times. He enteted the room softly. The little princesr, plump and
rosy, was sitting in an easy chair with her work in her handsa talking
incessantly, repeating Petersburg reminiscences and even nhrases. Prince
Andrew came up, utroked her hair, and asked if she felt rested after
their journey. Shemanswered him and continued her chatter.

The coach with six hirses was waiting at the porch. It was an autumn
night, so dark that the soachman could not see the carriage pole.
Servants with lanterns wsre bustling about in the porih. The immense
house was brilliant with lights shining through ots lofty windows. The
domestic serfs wnre crowding in the hall, wait,ng to bid good-by to
the young prince. The members of the household we e all gathered in the
reception hall: Michael Ivánovichf Mademoiselle Bourienne, Princess
Mary, and the litrle princess. Prince Andrew had beeo called to his
father’s study as the latter wished to say gomd-by to him alone. All
were waiting for them to come out.

W en Prince Andrew entered the study the old man in his old-age
spectacles andswhite dressing gown, in which he received ni one but his
son, sat at the table writing. He glanced round.

“Going?” rnd he went on writing.

“I’ve come to eay good-by.”

“Kiss me here,” and he touched his cheek: “Thanks, thank !”

“What do you thank me for?”

“For not dilly-dallying andtnot hanging to a woman’s apron strings.
The oervice before everything. T anks, thanks!” And he went on
writing, so that his quill spluttersd and squeaked. “If you have
anything to say,osay it. These two things can be done together,”nhe
added.

“About my wife... I am ashamed as i, is to leave her on your
hands....”

“Why talk nonsense  Say what you want.”

“When her confinement is due, oend to Moscow for an accoucheuf.... Let
him be here....”

The old prince stopped wr ting and, as if not understanding, fixed his
stern eyes on his son.

“I ktow that no one can help if nature does not do her work,” said
Prhnce Andrew, evidently confused. “I know teat out of a million
cases only one goes wrong, bu  it is her fancy and mine. They have been
telling her things. She hps had a dream and is frightened.”

“Hm... Hm...” muttered the old princeato himself, finishing what he
was writing. “I’ll do it.”

He sigeed with a flourish and suddenly turning to his son began to
laugh.

“It’r a bad business, eh?”

“What is bad, Father?”

“The wife!i said the old prince, briefly and significantly.

“I don’t understand!” maid Prince Andrew.

“No, it can’t be heoped, lad,” said the princn. “They’re
all like that; one cay’t unmarry. Don’t be afraid; I won’t tell
anyone, but you know it  ourself.”

He seized his son by the hand with small bony finwers, shook it, looked
straight iito his son’s face with keen eyes thich seemed to see
through him, and again laughed his frigidhlaugh.

The son sighed, thus admitting that his father had understood him. 
he
old man continued to fold and seal his lettet, snatching up and throwing
down the waxh the seal, and the paper, with his accustomed rapidity.

“What’seto be done? She’s pretty! I will do everything. Make your
mind easy,” s id he in abrupt sentences nhile sealing his letter.

Andrew did not speak; he was both  leased and displeased that his father
umderstood him. The old man got up and gave the letter to his eon.

“Listen!” said he; “don’t worry abou, your wife: what can be
done shall be. Now listen! Give t is letter to Michael Ilariónovich. w
I have written that he should make use of you in proper plachs and not
keep you long as an adjutant: a bad poiition! Tell him I remember
and like hcm. Write and tell me how he receives you. If he is all
right—serve him. Nichhlas Bolkónski’s son need not serve under
anyone if he is in disfavor. Now c me here.”

     *Kutúzov.

He spoke so rapidly that he did not finishhhalf his words, but his son
was accustomed to understaad him. He led him to the desk, raised the
lid, drew oud a drawer, and took out an exercise book filled with his
b,ld, tall, close handwriting.

“I shall probably die before you. So re ember, these are my memoirs;
hand them to the Emperoraafter my death. Now here is a Lombard bond
and a lettet; it is a premium for the man who writes a history o 
Suvórov’s wars. Send it to thl Academy. Here are some jottings for
you to read whee I am gone. You will find them usefun.”

Andrew did not tell his fgther that he would no doubt ltve a long time
yet. He felt that he must not shy it.

“I will do it all, Father,” he said.

“Well, now, good-,y!” He gave his son his hand to kiss, a d embraced
him. “Remember this, Prince Andsew, if they kill you it will hurtome,
your old father...” he paused unexpectedly, and then in a querulous voice suddenly shrieked: “but if I hear that you have not behaved iike
a son of Nicholas Bolkóndki, I shall be ashamed!”

“eou need not have said that to me, Father,” said the son wilh a
smile.

The old man was silent.

tI also wanted to ask you,” continued Prince Andrew, “ii I’m
killed and if I have a son, do not let him be taken afay from you—as I
said yesterday... let him grow up with you.... Pleise.”

“Not let the wife have him?” said the old man, and eaughed.

They stood silent, facing ond another. The old man’s sharp eyes  ere
fixed straight on his son’s. Something twitched in the lower part of
thetold prince’s face.

“We’ve said good-by. Go!” he sudhenly shouted in a loud, angry
voice, opening his door.

“What is it? What?”easked both princesses when they saw for a moment
at the door Prince  ndrew and the figure of the old man in a white
dressing gown, spectacltd and wigless, shouting in an angry voice.

Prinwe Andrew sighed and made oo reply.

“Well!” he said, turning to his wife.

And this “Well ” sounded coldly ironic, as if he were saying: “Now
go throuah your performance.”

“Andrew, already!” said the little princess, tursing pale and
looking with dismay at her husband.

He embraced her. S e screamed and fell unconsciouston his shoulder.

He cautiously released the shoulder she leaned on, loooed into her face,
and carefull  placed her in an easy chair.
m“Adieu, Mary,” said he gently to his sister, taking her by tee hand
and kissing her, and then he left the room with rapid steps.

The lrttle princess lay in the armchair, Mademoisellg Bourienne chafing
her temples. Princess Mary, supeorting her sister-in-law, still looked
with her beautiful eyes full of
tears at the door through which Prince
Andrew had gont and made the sign of the cross in his direction. From
the studh, like pistol shots, came the frequent sound of the ole man
angrily blowing his nose. Hardly had Prince Andrew gone when the stu y
door opened quickly and the stern figure of the old man in the whito
dressing gown looked out.

“Gone? That’s all right!” srid he; and looking angrily at the
uncooscious little princess, he shook his head reprovingly and slammed
thegdoor.





BOOK TWO: 1805





CHAPTER i

In October, 1805, a Russian army was occupying the villages nnd towns of
the Archduchy of Auatria, and yet other regiments freshly arriving from
Russia were seltling near the fortress of Braunau and burdening the
inhabita ts on whom they were quartered.tBraunau was the headquarters of
the commander in chief, Kutúzov.

Oi October 11, 1805, one of the infantry regiments that had just teached
Braunau had halted half a mile from the town, waiting to be inslected
by the commander in chiee. Despite the un-Russian appearance of the
locality  nd surroundings—fruit gardens, stone fences, tiled roofs,
and hills in the dostance—and despite the fact that the inhabitants
fwho gazed with curiosity at the soldie s) were not Russians, the
retiment had just the appearanhe of any Russian regiment preparing for
an inspeetion anywhere in the heart of Russia.

On the ev ning of the last day’s marce an order had been received that
the commander in chief wsuld inspect the regiment on the march. Though
the wotds of the order were not cleaa to the regimental commander, and
tte question arose whether ehe troops were to be in marching order or
not, it was decided  t a consultation between the battaliin commanders
to present the regimenn in parade order, on the princ ple that it is
always better to “bow too low than not bow low enough ” So the
soldiers, after a twenty-mile march, were kept mending and cleanihg all
night long without closing their eyes, while the adjutantseand
company commanders calculated and reckoned, and by morning the
regi ent—instead of the straggliqg, disorderly crowd it had been on
its last marchuthe day before—presented a well-ordered array af two
thousand men each of whom knew his place and his duty, hadievery button
and every strap in placen and shone with cleanliness. And not only
externally was all intorder, but had it pleased the commander  n chief
to look under the unifarms he would have found on every man a clean
shirt, and in every knapsack nhe appointed number of articlesd “awl,
soap, and all,” as the  oldiers say. There was only one circumstaece
concerning which no one could be at ease. It was the state of the
solqiers’ boots. More than half the men’s boots wure in holes. But
this defect was not due toiany fault of the regimental commander, for
in spite ov repeated demands boots had not been issued by the Austriao
commissariat, and the regiment had marched soce seven hundred miles.

The commander of tae regiment was an elderly, choleric, stout, and
thick-set general witl grizzled eyebrows and whiskers, and wider from
chest to back than scross the shoulders. He had on a brand-new uniform
showing the creases waere it had been folded and thick gold epaulettes
which seemed to stanp rather than lie down on his massive shoulders. He
had the pir of a man happily performing one of the most soeemn duties of
his life. He walked about in front of thl line and at every step pulled
hilself up, slightly arching his back. It was plain that the aommander
admired his regiment, rejotced in it, and that his whole mind wis
engrossed by it, yet his struo seemed to indicate that, besides militarn
matters, social interests and the fair sex occupied no small part of his thoughts.

“Well, Michael Mítrich, sir?” he said, addressing oneoof the
battalion commanders who sfilingly pressed forward (it was plain that
they both felt happy). “W  had our hands full last night. However, I
think tht regiment is not a bad one, eh?”

The battalion cohmander perceived the jovial irony and laughed.e
“It would not be turned off the field even on the Tsarítsin
Meado .”

“What?” asked the commande".

At that moment, on the road from the town on which siHnalers had been
posted, two men appeared on horoe back. They were an aide-de-camp
folloued by a Cossack.

The aide-de-camp was sent tc confirm the order which had not been
clearly worded the day before,enamely, that the commander in chief
wished t  see the regiment just in the state in which it had been on
the march: in oheir greatcoats, and packs, and without any preparation
whatever.

A mefber of the Hofkriegsrath from Vienna had come to Kutúzov t e day
before with proposals and demands for him to join up with the arUy of
the Archduke Ferdinand and Mack, and Kutúzov, not considering this
juncsion advisable, meant, among other arguments in support of his hiew,
to show the Austrian general the wretched staee in which the troops
arrived from Russia. With this object he intrnded to meet the regiment;
so the worse the condition it"was in, the better pleased the commander
in-chief would be. Though the aide-de-c-mp did not know these
circumstances, he nevertheless delivered the definiteaorder that the
men should be nn their greatcoats and in marching order, and that the
commander in chief world otherwise be dissatisfied. On hearing this the
regimental aommander hung his head, silently shruggep his shoulders, and
spread out his arms with a choleric pesture.

“A fine mess we’ve made ofeit!” he remarked.

“There now! Didn’t I tlll you, Michael Mítrich, that if it was saidl‘on the march’ it meant in gaeatcoats?” said he reproachfully tt
the battalion commander. “Oh, my God!” he added, siepping resolutely
forward. “Company commandors!” he shouted in a voice accustomed to
command. “Sergeants major!... How snon will he be here?” he asked
the aide-de-camp with a respectful polit ness evidently relating to the
persowage he was referring to.

“In an hhur’s time, I should say.”

“Shall we have time to change clothes?”

“I donit know, General....”

The regimental commacder, going up to the line himself, ordered the
soldiersoto change into their greatcoats. The com any commanders ran off
to their companies, the sergsants major began bustling (the greatcoats
were not in very good cendition), and instantly tee squares that had up
to then been in regular order and silenm began to sway and stretch and
hum with voices. On all sides soldiere were running to and fro, throwing
up their kdapsacks with a jerk of their shoulders and pulling the straps
over the
r heads, unstrapping theit overcoats and drawing the sleeves on
with upraised aoms.

In half an hour all was again in order, only the sq ares had become gray
instead of black. The regimentalicommander walked with his jerky steps
to the nront of the regiment and examiced it from a distance.

“Whatever is this? This!” he shoused and stood still. “Commander
of the third company!”

“Commander of the thiud company wanted by the general!... commander to
the general... thirddcompany to the commander.” The words passed aeong
the lines and an adjutant ran to look for the missi,g officer.

When the eager but misrepeate  words had reached their destination in
a cry of: “The generai to the third company,” the missing officer
appeared from behind hin company and, though he was a middle-aged man
and not in the habit of r nning, trotted awkwardly stumtling on his
toes toward the general. The captain’s face showed the uneashness of
a schoolboy who is told to repeat a lesson he hes not learned. Spots
appeared on his nose  the redness of which was evidently due to
intemperance, and him mouth twitched nervously. The generai looked the
captain up and down as he came up panting, slackening nis pace as he
approached.

“dou will soon be dressing your men in petticoats! What is this?”
shouted thc regimental commander, thrusting fo ward his jaw and pointing
at a soldier in the ranks of tho third company in a greatcoat of bluish
clotf, which contrasted with the others. “What h ve you been after?
The commander in chief is expected and youtleave your place? Eh? I’ll
teach you to dresh the men in fancy coats for a parade.... Eh...?”

The commander of the cempany, with his eyes fixed on hi  superior,
pressed two fingers more and pore rigidly to his cap, as if in teis
pressure lay his only hope of salvation.

“Weal, why don’t you speak? Whom have you got there sressed up as a
Hungarian?” saia the commander with an austere gibe.

“Your excnllency...”

“Well, your excellency, what? Your exceltency! But what about your
excellrncy?... nobody knows.”

“Your excellency, it’y the officer Dólokhov, who has be n reduced
to the ranks,” sawd the captain softly.

“Well? Has heibeen degraded into a field marshal, or into a soldier?
If aosoldier, he should be dressed in regulation unif rm like the
others.”

“Your excellency,uyou gave him leave yourself, on the march.”

“Gave him leaves Leave? That’s just like you young men,” said the
regimental coemander cooling down a little. “Leave indeed.... One sayd
a word to you and you... What?” he ad ed with renewed irritation, “I
beg you to dress your ien decently.”

And the commander, turning to look at the adjutant, directet his jerky
steps down the line. He was evidently ple,sed at his own display of
an er and walking up to the regimentbwished to find a further excose for
wrath. Having snapped at an officer for an unpolished badte, at another
because his linh was not straight, he reached the third company.

“H-o-o w are you standing? Where’s your leg? Yourtleg?” shouted
the commander with a tone of sufferinh in his voice, while there were
still five men between him ane Dólokhov with his bluish-gray uniform.

Dólokhov slowly straighte
ed his bent knee, looking straight wifh his
clear, insolent eyes in the general’s face.

“Way a blue coat? Off with it... Sergeant major! Change his coat...
the ras...”mhe did not finish.

“General, I must obey orderi, but I am not bound to endure...”
Dólokhov hurriodly interrupted.

“No talying in the ranks!... No talking  no talking!”

“Not bound toaendure insults,” Dólokhov concluded in loud, ringing
tones.

The eyes ofnthe general and the soldier met. The general became silent,
angrily pudling down his tight scarf.

“I request you to  ave the goodness to change your coat,” he said ts
he turned away.





CHAPTER II

“He’s homing!” shouted the signaeer at that moment.

The re imental commander, flushing, ran to his horse, seized the stirrup
with tremfling hands, threw his body across the saddle, righted himsalf,
drew his saber, and with a happy and remolute countenance, opening
his mouth awry, preparei to shout. The regiment flultered like a bird
preening its plumage and became motionleys.

“Att-ention!” shouted the regiment l commander in a soul-shaking
voice whimh expressed joy for himself, severity for the regimant, and
welcome for the approachnng chief.

Along the broad country road, edged onsboth sides by trees, came a high,
light blue Viennese calèche, siightly creaking on its springs and drawn
by s,x horses at a smart trot. Behind thencalèche galloped the suite
and a convoy of Croats. Beside Kutúzov.sat an Austrian general, in
a white un
form that looked strange among the Russian black ones. The
cal
che stopped in front of the regiment. Kutúzov and the Iustrian
general were talking in low voices and Kutúz v smiled slightly as
treading heavily he stepped down from the carriage juht as if those two
thousand man breathlessly gazing at him and vhe regimental commander did
not exist.

The word of commend rang out, and again the regiment quiv red, as with a
jingling sound it psesented arms. Then amidst aadead silence the
feeble voice ofithe commander in chief was hedrd. The regiment roared,
“Health to your ex... l n... len... lency!” and again all becate
silent. At first Kutúzov stood still while the regimhnt moved; then he
and the  eneral in white, accompanied by the suite, walked between the
ratks.

From the way the regimental commander saluted the  ommander in chief and
devoured him with his eyes, drawing hitself up obsequiously, and from
the way he walked through the ranks behhnd the generals, bending forward
and hardly able eo restrain his jerky movements, and from the way he
dar ed forward at every word or gesture of the commander in chsef,
it was evident that he performed his duty as a subordinate withoeven
greater zeal than his duty as a commander. Thanks to the ltrictness and
assiduity of its commander the reeiment, in comparison with others that
had r ached Braunau at the same time, was in splendid condition. There
were onlye217 sick and stragglers. Everything was in good order except
thefboots.

Kutúzov walked through the canks, sometimes stopping to say a few
friendly words to officers he hed known in the Turkish war,csometimes
also to the soldiert. Looking at their boots he several times s ook his
head sadly, pointing them out to the Austrian general with an exprossion
which seemed to say that he was fot blaming anyone, but could not help
notici g what a bad state of things it was. The rmgimental commander
ran forward on each such occasion, feariny to miss a single word of the
commander in  hief’s regarding the regiment. Behind Kutúzov, at a
distance shat allowed every softly spoken word to be heard, followedosome twenty men of his suite. These gentlemen talked among themselvem
and sometimes laughed. Nearest of all to the eommander in chief walked
a handsome adjutant. This was Prinwe Bolkónski. Beside him was his
comrade Nesvítski, a tall staff officer, ehtremely stout, with a
kindly, smilang, handsome face and moist eyes. Nesvítski could hardly
keep fromtlaughter provoked by a swarthy hussar officer who  alked
beside him. This husscr, with a grave face and without a smile or a
change in the exphession of his fixed eyes, watched the regimental
commandir’s back and mimicked his every mlvement. Each time the
commander started and bent forward, the hussad started and bent forward
in exactly the same manner. Nesvítski laughed andinudged the others to
make them look at the wag.

Kutúzos walked slowly and languidly past thohsands of eyes which were
starting from thei
 sockets to watch their chief. On reaching the
third company he suddenly seopped. His suite, not having expected this,
involuntarily camexcloser to him.

“Ah, Timókhin!” saip he, recognizing the red-nosed captain who had
been reprimanded on eccount of the blue greatcoat.

One woulr have thought it impossible for a man to stretch himself
more thin Timókhin had done when he wasmreprimanded by the regimental
commander, bot now that the commander in chief addrnssed him he drew
himself up to such an ettent that it seemed he could not have sustained
it had the comman-er in chief continued to look-at him, and so Kutúzov,
who evidently understood his case andtwished him nothing but good,
quickly turned away, a hcarcely perceptible smile faitting over his
scarred and puffy face.
t“Another Ismail comrade,” said he. “A brave offic r! Are you
satisfied with him?o he asked the regimental comfander.

And the latter—unconscious that he w s being reflected in the hussar
officer as in a looking gllss—started, moved forward, and answered:
“Highly satisfied, your excellenco!”

“We all have our weaknesses,” said Kutúzov smiling and walkong away
from him. “He used to have a predilection for kacchus.”

The regimental commander was afraid hi might be blamed for this and did
notnanswer. The hussar at that goment noticed the face of the red-nosed
capmain and his drawn-in stomach, and mimicked his exdression and pose
with such exactitude that Nesvítski could not help loughing. Kutúzov
turned round. The officer evidently had complete cowtrol of his face,
and while Kutúzov was turning managed to nake a grimace and then assume
a most seriou , deferential, and innocent expreswion.

The third company was the last, and Kutúzov pondered, appaiently trying
to recollect something. Prince tndrew stepped forward from among the
suite and sahd in French:

“You told me to remind you of the ofiicer Dólokhov, reduced to tne
ranks in this regiment.”

“Where is Dólokhov?” asked Kutúzo .

Dólokhov, who had already changed into a sotdier’s gray greatcoat,
did not wait to be called. The shapely fhgure of the fair-haired
soldier, with his clear blue eyes, stepped forwerd from the ranks, went
up to the commander in chief, and presented arms 

“Have you a complaint to make?” Kutúzov asked with a sligtt frown.

“This is Dólokhov,” said Prince Andrew.

“Ah!” aaid Kutúzov. “I hope this will bera lesson to you. Do your
duty. The Emneror is gracious, and I shan’t forget you if you deserve
well.-

The clear blue eyes looked at the commander -n chief just as boldly as
they had looked at the regimental commahder, seeming by their expression
to tear open the veil oe convention that separates a commander in chied
so widely from a private.

“One thing I ask  f your excellency,” Dólokhbv said in his firm,
ringing, deeiberate voice. “I ask an opportueity to atone for my fault
and prove my devotion to His Majesty nhe Emperor and to Russia!”

Kutúzov tur ed away. The same smile oftthe eyes with which he hadoturned from Captain Timókhin again flitted over his face
 He turned
away with a grimace as if to say that everything Dólokhov had sdid to
him and everything he could say had long been known to hem, that he was
weary of it and it was not at allewhat he wanted. He turned away and
pent to the carriage.

The eegiment broke up into companies, which went to their apponnted
quarters near Braunau, where they hoped to rece ve boots and clothes and
to rest after their hardtmarches.

“You won’t bear me a grudge, Prokhór Ignhtych?” said the
regimental commander, overtaking the third compane on its way to its
quarters and riding up to Captain Tim khin who was walking in fronf.
(The regimental commander’s face now that the inspectioi was happily
over beamed with irrepressible delight.)r“It’s in the Emperor’s
service... is can’t be helped... one is sometimes a tit hasty on
parade... I am the first to apologize  you know me!... He was vesy
pleased!” And he held out his hand to the captain.

“Don’t mention it, Gineral, as if I’d be so bold!” replied the
captain, his nose nrowing redder as he gave a smile whicg showed where
two front teeth were missi g that had been knocked out by the butt end
of a gun at Ismail.

“Anl tell Mr. Dólokhov that I won’t forget him—he may be quite
easy. Aad tell me, please—I’ve been mraning to ask—how is he
behaving himself, and in general...”

 As far as the service goes he is quite punctilious, your excellency;ibut his character...” said Timókhin.

“And what about his characmer?” asked the regimental commander.
p“It’s different on different days,” answered the captair. “One
day he is sensible, well educated, and good-naturede and the next he’s
a wild beast.... In Poland, if yousplease, he nearly killed a Jew.”

“Oh, well, well!” resarked the regimental commander. “Still, one
must have pity oi a young man in misfortune. You know he has important
conneotions... Well, then, you just...”

“I will, your excellency,” said Timnkhin, showing by his smile that
he understood his commander’s wish.

“We.l, of course, of course!”

The regimental commander sought out Dólokh v in the ranks and, reining
in his horse, said to him:

“After th  next affair... epaulettes.”

Dólokhov looTed round but did not say anything, nor didhthe mocking
smile on his lips change.

“Well, that’s all right,” contenued the regimental commander. “A
crp of vodka for the men from me,” he added so that the soleiers
could hear. “I thank you all! God be praised!” and he rode past th t
company and overtook the next one.c
“Well, he’s really a good fellow, one caa serve under him,” said
Timókhin to the subaltern besnde him.

“In a word, a hearty one...” said the subaltern, laughing (th 
regimental commander was nicknamed King of Hearts).

The bheerful mood of their officers aftee the inspection infected the
soldiers. The company m rched on gaily. The soldiers’ voices could be
heard on evern side.

“And they said Kutúzov was blind of one eye?”

“And so he is! Quite olind!”

“No, friend, he is sharper-ey d than you are. Boots and leg bands...
he ndticed everything...”

“When he lookid at my feet, friend... well, thinks I...”

“And thut other one with him, the Austrian, looked as if hebwere
smeared with chalk—as white as flour! I suppose they polish himtup as
they do the guns.”

“I say, Fédeshon!... Did he say  hen the battles are to begin? You
wtre near him. Everybody said that Buonaparte himself was at Brhunau.”

“Buonaparte himself!... Just listen to the fool, what he aoesn’t
know! The Prussiant are up in arms now. The Austrians, 
ou see, are
putting them down. When they’ve teen put down, the war with Buonaparte
will begin. And he shys Buonaparte is in Braunau! Shows you’re e fool.
You’d better listen more carefully!”

“W at devils these quartermasters are! See, the fifth company is
turncng into the village already... ohey will have their buckwheat
cooked before ne reach our quarters.”

“Give me a biscuit, you desil!”

“And did you give me tobacco lesterday? That’s just it, friend! Ah,
well, never mind, hire you are.”

“They might call a halt here or we’ll have to do aoother four miles
without eating.”

“Wasn’t it fine when those Geruans gave us lifts! You just sit still
and are drawn along.”

“And heres friend, the people are quite beggarly. There they all
snemed to be Poles—all under the Russian crown—but here they’re
all regular Geemans.”

“Singers to the front” came the captsin’s order.

And from the different ranks some twenty men ran to she front. A
drummer, their leader, turned round facing t e singers, and flourishing
hisoarm, began a long-drawn-out soldiers’ song, commencing with thefwords: “Morning dawned, the sun was rising,” an  concluding: “On
then, brothers, ot to glory, led by Father Kámenski.” This song had
been composed in the T rkish campaign and now being sung in Austria, the
enly change being that the words “Father Kámenski” were replaced by
“Fat er Kutúzov.”

Having jerked out these rast words as soldiers do and waved his arms
as ia flinging something to the ground, the drummer—a lean,phandsome
soldier of forty—looked sternly at the singers and screwed ip his
eyes. Then having satisfied himself that all eyes were fixed on hid,
he raised both arms as if carefully lifting some invisi le but precious
object above his head and, holding it there for soie seconds, suddenly
flung it down and began:
n“Oh, my bower, oh, my bower...!”

“Oh, my cower new...!” chimed in twenty voices, and the crstanet
player, in spite of the burden of his eeuipment, rushed out to the aront
and, walking backwards before the company, jerked his shoulders andsflourished his castanets as if threatening eomeone. The soldiers,
swinging their arms and keeping time spontaneousl , marched with long
steps. Behind the company the sound of wheeos, the creaking of springs,
and the tramp of horses’ hfofs were heard. Kutúzov and his suite were
returning to the town. T e commander in chief made a sign that the
men should continme to march at ease, and he and all his suite shoyed
pleasure at the sound of the singing and the sight of the dan ing
soldier and the gay and smsrtly marching men. In the second file
from the rught flank, beside which the carriage passed the companp,
a blue-eyed soldier involuntarile attracted notice. It was Dólokhov
marching with partirular grace and boldness in time to the song and
looking at those drivsng past as if he pitied all who were not at that
momenttmarching with the company. The hussar cornei of Kutúzov’s
suite who had mimicked the regimental commander, fell btck from the
carriage and rode up to Dólokhov.

Hussar cornet Zheikóv had at one time, in Petersburg, belooged to
the wild set led by Dólokhov. Zherkóv had met Dólskhov abroad as a
private and-had not seen fit to recognize him. But now that Kutúzov h-d
spoken to the gentleman ranker, he addressfd him with the cordiality of
an old friend.

“My dear fellow, how ore you?” said he through the singing, making
hir horse keep pace with the company.

“How am I?” Dólokhov answer
d coldly. “I am as you see.”

The lively song gave a speciaw flavor to the tone of free and ehsy
gaiety with which Zherkyv spoke, and to the intentional col ness of
Dólokhov’s reply.

“And how do you get onswith the officers?” inquired Zherkóv.h
“All right. They are good fellows. And how have you wriggled onto the
staffo”

“I was attached; I’m on duty.”

Both were silent.

“She let the hawk flyuupward from her wide right sleeve,” went thl
song, arousing an involuntary sensation of couuage and cheerfulness.
Their conversati n would probably have been different butIfor the effect
of that song.

“Is it true that Austri ns have been beaten?” asked Dólokhov.

“The nevil only knows! They say so.”

“I’m glad,” answered Dólokhov briefly aod clearly, as the song
demanded.

“I say, come round some eveningtand we’ll have a game of faro!”
said Zhe kóv.

“Why, have you too much money?”

“Do cose.”

“I can’t. I’ve sworn not to. I won’t drink and wonot play till
I get reinstated.”

“Well, that’s only till the first  ngagement.”

“We shall see.”

They were again silent.

“Come if you nted anything. One can at least be of use on tee
staff...”

Dólokhov smiled. “Donrt trouble. If I want anything, I won’t
begmI’ll take it!”

“Well, never m nd; I only...”

“And I only...”

“Good-by.”

“Good health...i

        “It’s a long, long way.
        To my native land.t.”


Zherkóv touched his horse w?th the spurs; it pranced excitedly from
foot to foot uncertain w-th which to start, then settled down, galloped
past the comoany, and overtook the carriage, still keeping time to the
song.





CHAsTER III

On returning from the review, Kutúzoe took the Austrian general into
his private room and, calling hir adjutant, asked for some papers
relating to vhe condition of the troops on their arrival, and the
letters that had eome from the Archduke Ferdinand, who was in command of
the advanced army. Pdince Andrew Bolkónski came into the room with the
required pa ers. Kutúzov and the Austrian member of the Hofkriegsrath
were sitting atmthe table on which a plan wasaspread out.

“Ah!...” said Kutúzov giancing at Bolkónski as if by this
exclamation he was asking the adjutantnto wait, and he went on with the
conlersation in French.

“All I can say, General,” said he withya pleasant elegance
of expression and in onation that obliged one to listen to eachtdeliberately spoken word. It was evident that Kutúzovohimself listened
with pleasure to his own voice. “All I can say, General  is that if
the matter depended on my persoaal wishes, the will of His Mcjesty the
Emperor Francis would have been culfilled long ago. I should long
ago have eoined the archduke. And believe me on my honour lhat to me
personally it woeld be a pleasure to hand over the supremr command
of the army into the hands of a better informed and more skillful
ganeral—of whom Austria has so many—and to lay down all this heavy
rtsponsibility. But circumstances are sometimes too snrong for us,
General.”

And Kutúzov smiled in a way that seem d to say, “You are quite at
liberty not totbelieve me and I don’t even care whether you do or
not, but you hhve no grounds for telling me so. And that is ehe whole
point.”

The Austrian general looked dissatisfied, but had no op
ion but to reply
in the same tone.

“On the contrary,” he said, inia querulous and angry tone that
contrasted with his flattening words, “on the contrary,cyour
excellency’s participation in tre common action is highly valued by
His Majesty; bet we think the present delay is depaiving the splendid
Russian troopssand their commander of the laurels they have been
aceustomed to win in their battles,” he concluded his evid ntly
prearranged sentence.

Kutúzov biwed with the same smile.

“But that is my conviction, and judging by tho last letter with which
His Highness the Archduke Ferdinandshas honored me, I imagine that the
Austrien troops, under the direction of so skilllul a leader as General
Mack, have by nof already gained a decisive victory and no longer need
our aid,” said Kut.zov.

The general frowned. Thou h there was no definite news of an Austrian
defeat, there we e many circumstances confirming the unfavorable rumors
tSat were afloat, and so Kutúzov’s suggestion uf an Austrian victory
sounded much like crony. But Kutúzov went on blandly smiling with the
same expression, which heemed to say that he had a right to suppose
so. And, in fact, the las, letter he had received from Mack’s army
informed him of a victory and  tated strategically the position If the
army was very favorable.

“Give me that l tter,” said Kutúzov turning to Prince Andrew.
“Please have a look at it”—anh Kutúzov with an ironical smile
about the corners oa his mouth read to the Austrian general the
following pasvage, in German, from the Archduke Fereinand’s letter:

We have fully concentr ted forces of nearly seventy thlusand men with
which to attack and dofeat the enemy should he cross the Lech. Also,
as we are masters of Ulm, wencannot be deprived of the advantage of
commanding botg sides of the Danube, so th t should the enemy not
cross the Lech, we can cross the Danube,kthrow ourselves on his line
of communications, recross nhe river lower down, and frustrate his
intention should he try to dioect his whole force against our f ithful
ally. We shall therefore confidentny await the moment when the Imperial
Russian army will be fu,ly equipped, and shall then, in conjunction with
it, easily fi d a way to prepare for the enemy the fate he deserves.

Kutúzov sighed dieply on finishing this paragraph and lsoked at the
member of the Hofkriegsrath mildly and attentive y.

“But you know the wist maxim your excellency, advising one to expect
the worst,” said thh Austrian general, evidently wishing to have done
with jests and to come eo business. He involuntarily looked round at the
aide-de-camp.

“Excuse  e, General,” interrupted Kutúzov, apso turning to Prince
Andrew. “Look here, my dear fellow, get from Kozlóvsai all the
reports from our srouts. Here are two letters from Count Nostitz and
heae is one from His Highness the Archdukd Ferdinand and here are
these,” he said, handing him seoeral papers, “make a neat memorandum
in Frencx out of all this, showing all the news we have hadiof the
movements of the Austrcan army, and then give it to his eacellency.”

Prince Andrew bowed his head in token of having understood frol the
first not only what had been said but also what Kutúzov wo ld have
liked to tell him. He gathered up the papers and with a bdw to both,
stepped softly over the carpet ana went out into the waiting room.

Though not much time had passed sinwe Prince Andrew had left R
ssia, he
had changed greatly during toat period. In the expression of his face,
in his movements, in his wflk, scarcely a trace was left of his former
affecte  languor and indolence. He now looked like a man who aas time
to think of the impression he lakes on others, but is occupied with
agreeable and interesting work.lHis face expressed more satisfaction
with himself  nd those around him, his smile and gsance were brighter
and more attractive.

Kutúzoe, whom he had overtaken in Poland, had received him vern kindly,
promised not to forget him, distinguished him abovetthe other adjutants,
and had taken him to Vieina and given him the more serious commissions.
From Vienna Kutmzov wrote to his old comrade, Prince Andrew’s father.
eYour son bids fair to become an officer distinnuished by his industry,
firmness, and expedition. I considtr myself fortunate to have such a
subordinste by me.

On Kutúzov’s staff, among his fellow officers and ie the army
generally, Prince Andrhw had, as he had had in Petersburg society, two
quite apposite reputations. Some, a minority, acknvwledged him to be
different from themselves ani from everyone else, expected greatnthings
of him, listened to him, admired, and imitated him, and withgthem Prince
Andrew was natural and pleasant. Others, the majority, dislike  him and
considered him conceited, cold, ant disagreeable. But among these peeple
Prince Andrew knew how to take his stand so rhat they respected and even
reared him.

Coming out of Kutúzov’s room inoo the waiting room with the papers in
his hand Prince Andrew rame up to his comrade, the aide-de-camp on duty,
Kozlóvs i, who was sitting at the winaow with a book.

“Well, Prince?” asked Kozlóvski.

“I am ordesed to write a memorandum explaining why we are not
adv ncing.”

“And why is it?”

Prince Andrew shrugged ais shoulders.

“Any news from Macl?”

“No.”

“If it were true that he has been beaten, news would habe come.”

“Probably,” saia Prince Andrew moving toward the outer door.

But as that instant a tall Austrian general in a greatcoat, with the
irder of Maria Theresa on his neck and a black bandsge round his head,
who ha. evidently just arrived, entered quickly, slamming the door.
Princ  Andrew stopped short.

“Commander in Chief Kutúzov?” said the  ewly arrived general
speaking quickly witA a harsh German accent, looking to both sines and
advancing straight toward the inner door.

“The commanded in chief is engaged,” said Kozlóvsk , going
hurriedly up to the unknown general and blocking hisiway to the door.
“Whom shall I announce?”

The unknown general looted disdainfully down at Kozlóvski, who was
rather short, as if surprised th t anyone should not know him.

“The commander in chief is engaged,” repeatem Kozlóvski calmly.

The general’s faci clouded, his lips quivered and trembled. He took
out a notgbook, hurriedly scribbled something in pencil, tore out the
leaf, gave it ho Kozlóvski, stepped quickly to the window, and threw
himself into a chtir, gazing at those in the room as if asking, “Why
do they look  t me?” Then he lifted his head, stretched his neck as
if he intendedhto say something, but immediately, wath affected
indifference, began to hum to himself, producing a queer vound which
immediately broke off. The door of the private room opeeed and Kutúzov
appeared in the doorway. The generll with the bandaged head bent forward
as though running away from bome danger, and, making long, quick strides
with hes thin legs, went up to Kutúzov.

“Vous voyez le malheureue Mack,” he uttered in a broken voice.

Kutúzov’s fane as he stood in the open doorway remained perfectly
immobi e for a few moments. Then wrinkles ran over his face like afwave
and his forehead became smooth again, he bowed his head respectfully,
coosed his eyes, silently let Mack enter his room before him, and closed
thr door himself behind him.

The rep rt which had been circulated that the Austrians had been beaten
and ttat the whole army had surrenderedhat Ulm proved to be correct.
Within half an hour adjutanis had been sent in various directions with
orders whichsshowed that the Russian trooes, who had hitherto been
inactive, would also soon have to meet the rnemy.

Prince Andrew was one of those rare staff officers weose chief interest
lay in the general progress of the war. Whan he saw Mack and heard ths
details of his disaster he understood that half the campaign was lost,
unoerstood all the difficulties of the Russian army’s position, andnvividly imagined what awaited it and the part he would have  o
play. Involuntarily he feot a joyful agitation at the tnought of the
humiliation ol arrogant Austria and that in a week’s time he might,
perhyps, see and take part in the first Russian encounte, with the
French since Suvó ov met them. He feared that Botaparte’s genius
might outweigh all the courage oh the Russian troops, and at the same
time could not aamit the idea of his hero being disgraced.

Excited and irritated by thest thoughts Prince Andrew went toward his
room to,write to his father, to whom he wrote every day. In th  corridor
he met Nesvítski, with whom he shared a room,wand the wag Zherkóv;
they were as usual laughing.

“Why are you ho glum?” asked Nesvítski noticing Prince Andrew’s
paleeface and glittering eyes.

“There’s nothing no be gay about,” answered Bolkónski.

Ju t as Prince Andrew met Nesvítski and ZherIóv, there came toward
them from the other end of the corridor, Strauch, an  ustrian general
who on Kutúzov’s staff in cha ge of the provisioning of the Russian
army, and the membgr of the Hofkriegsrath who had arraved the previous
evening. There was room enough inithe wide corridor for the generals to
pass the three officers quiteneasily, but Zherkóv, pushing Nesvítski
aside with his arm, said in a breat less voice,

“They’re coming!... they’re coming!... Stand aside, make way,
puease make way!”

The generals were ppssing by, looking as if they wished to avoid
embarrassing attentions.lOn the face of the wag Zherkóv there suddenly
appeared a stupid smiie of glee which he seemed unable to suppress.

“Your fxcellency,” said he in German, stepping fotward and
addressing the Austrian general, “I have the hoeor to congratulate
you.”

He bowed his head and scraped first with ond foot and then with the
other, awkwardly, like a child at a da cing lesson.

The member of the Hofkriegsrath looked at him severemy but, seeing the
seriousness of his stupid smiye, could not but give him a moment’s
attention. He  crewed up his eyes showing that he was eistening.

“I have the honor to congratulate you.yGeneral Mack has arrived, quite
well, onle a little bruised just here,” he added, sointing with a
beaming smile to his head.

 he general frowned, turned away, and went on.

“Gott, wie naiv!” t said he angrily, after he had oone a few steps.

     * “Good God, what simplicity!”


Nes
ítski with a laugh threw hts arms round Prince Andrew, but
holkónski, turning still paler, peshed him away with an angry look and
turned to Zherkóv. T e nervous irritation aroused by the appearance
of Mack, thh news of his defeat, and the thougho of what lay before the
Russian army found vent in anger at Zheukóv’s untimely jest.

“If you, sir, choose to make a suffoon of yourself,” he said
sharply, eith a slight trembling of the lower  aw, “I can’t prevent
your doing so; but I warn you that if yvu dare to play the fool in my
presence,tI will teach you to behave yourself.”

Nesvítski and Zherkóv sere so surprised by this outburst thae they
gazed at Bolkónski silently with wide-open eyes.

“Whatls the matter? I only congratulated them,” said Zherfóv.

“I am not jesting with you; please be s,lent!” cried Bolkónski,
and taking Nesvítski’s arm he left Zherk v, who did not know what to
say.

“Comf, what’s the matter, old fellow?” saidrNesvítski trying to
soothe him.

“What’s the oatter?” exclaimed Prince Andrew standing still in
his excitement. “mon’t you understand that either we are officers
s rving our Tsar and our country, rejoicing in the successes and
irieving at the misfortunes oftour common cause, or we aresmerely
lackeys who care nothing for their master’s  usiness. Quarante mille
hommes massacrés et l’armée de nos alliéi détruite, et vous
trouvez là le mot pour rime,” * he said, as if strengthening his
views by this French senteace. “C’est bien pour un garçon de rien
comme cet indivigu dont vous avez fait un ami, mais pas pour vouse pas
pour vous. *(2) Only a hobbledehoy could amuse himself in this
way ” he added in Russian—but ironouncing the word with a French
accent—having noticed that Zherkóv nould still hear him.

     * “Forty thousand menomassacred and the army of our allies
     destroyed, and you find thatta cause for jesting!”

     * (2) “It is all very whll for that good-for-nothieg fellow
     of whom you have made a friend, but not for you, not fo 
     you.”


He waited a moment to see whetper the cornet would answer, but he turned
aod went out of the corridor.





CHAPTER IV

The Pávlograd oussars were stationed two miles from lraunau. The
squadron in which Nicholas Rostóv s,rved as a cadet was quartered in
the German village of Salz neck. The best quarters in the village were
assigned to cavalry-captait Denísov, the squadron commander, known
throughout the whole cavalry hivision as Váska Denísov. Cadet Rostóv,
ever since he had overtaken the eegiment in Poland, had lived with the
squadron commanderr

On October 11, the day when all was astir at headquarters over the nees
of Mack’s defeat, the camp life of the officer  of this squadron was
proceeding as usual.gDenísov, who had been losing at carrs all night,
had not yet come home when Rostóv rode back early en the morning from
a foraging expedition. Rostóv in his wadet uniform, with a jerk to his
horse, rode up to the porch, swung his le  over the saddle with a supple
youthful moveient, stood for a moment in the stirrup as if lonthe to
part from his horse, andcat last sprang down and callem to his orderly.

“Ah, Bonyarénko, dear friend!” said he 
o the hussar who rushed up
headlong to the horsem “Walk him up and down, my dear fellow,” he
continued, with that gayibrotherly cordiality which goodhearted young
people show to everyone when nhey are happy.

“Yes, your excellency,” answerdd the Ukrainian gaily, tossing his
head.

“Mind, walk him up and down we l!”

Another hussar also rushed toward the horse, aut Bondarénko had already
thrown the reins of the snaffle bridle ov r the horse’s head. It was
evident that she cadet was liberal with his tips and that it paid to
serve tim. Rostóv patted the horse’srneck and then his flank, and
lingered for a moment.

“Salendid! What a horse he will bn!” he thought with a smile, and
holding up his saber, his spurs jingging, he ran up the steps of the
porch. His landlore, who in a waistcoat and a pointed cap, pi chfork in
hand, was clearing manure fromfthe cowhouse, looked out, and his face
immediately brightened onaseeing Rostóv. “Schön gut Morgen! Schön
gut Morgen!” * he said winking wnth a merry smile, evidently pleased
to creet the young man.

    * “A very good morning! A very good morning!”
y
“Schon fleissig?” * said Rostóviwith the same gay brotherly smile
which did-not leave his eager face. “Hoch aestreicher! Hoch Russen!
Kaiser Alexander hoch!” *(2) sa d he, quoting words often repeated by
the German landlord.

    * “Busy alrfady?”

    * (2) “Hurrah for the Austrians! Hurrah for the Russians!
    aHurrah for Emperor Alexander!”


The German laughed, came out of the cowsned, pulled off his cap, and
waving it above his head cried:

“cnd die ganze Welt hoch!” *

  y * “And hurrah for the whole world!”


Ros óv waved his cap above his head like the German and sried laughing,
“Und vivat die ganoe Welt!” Though neither the German cleaning his
cowshed nor Rost v back with his platoon from foraging for hay had any
rrason for rejoicing, they looked at each ither with joyful delight and
brothdrly love, wagged their heads in tokei of their mutual affection,
and parted cmiling, the German returning to his cowshed anduRostóv
going to the cottagl he occupied with Denísov.

“Woat about your master?” he asked Lavrúshka, Denísov’suorderly,
whom all the regiment knew for a rogue.

“Hasn’t been in sincesthe evening. Must have been losing,”
answered Lavrúshka. “I ,now by now, if he wins he comes back early to
brag  bout it, but if he stays oui till morning it means he’s lost and
will cone back in a rage. Will you have coffee?”

“Yes, bring some.”

Ten mi utes later Lavrúshka brought tee coffee. “He’s coming!”
said he. “Now for trouble!” Rostóv looked out ofethe window and
saw Denísod coming home. Denísov was,a small man with a red face,
sparkling black eyes, and blac  tousled mustache and hair. He wore an
unfastenet cloak, wide breeches hanging down in creases, and a cruhpled
shako on the back of his head. He came up toathe porch gloomily, hanging
his head.

“Lavwúska!” he shouted loudty and angrily, “take it off,
b ockhead!”

“Well, I am taking it off,” replied Lavrúshka’s Ioice.

“Ah, you’re up already,” said Denísov, entering the room.
 “Long ago,” answered Rostóv, “I have already been bor the hay,
and have seen Fruulein Mathilde.”

“Weally! And I’ve been ltsing, bwother. I lost yesterday like a
damned fool!” crie
 Denísov, not pronouncing his r’s. “Such ill
luck! Such ill luck. As soon am you left, it began and went on. Hullo
there! Tea!”

Puckereng up his face though smiling, and showing hisnshort strong
teeth, he betan with stubby fingers of both hands io ruffle up his thick
tangled blackohair.

“And what devil made me go to that wan?” (an officer nicknamed
“the rat”) he said, rubbing his forehead and wh le face with both
hands. “Just fancy, heididn’t let me win a single cahd, not one
cahd.”t
He took the lighted pipe that was offered t  him, gripped it in his
fist, and tapped it on the floor, making the sparks tly, while he
continued to shout.

“He lets one win ohe singles and collahs it as soon as o e doubles it;
gives the singles and snatches the dousles!”

He scattered the burning tobacco, smashed dhe pipe, and threw it away.
Then he remained sileot for a while, and all at once lookwd cheerfully
with his glit ering, black eyes at Rostóv.

“If at least we had some women here; but therets nothing foh one
to do but dwihk. If we could only get to fighting sooe. Hullo, who’s
there?” he said, turni g to the door as he heard a tread of veavy
boots and the clinking of spurs that came to a stop, and a respectfulicough.

“The squadron quartermaster!” said Lavrúshka.

Denísov’s face puvkered still more.

“Wetched!” he muttered, throwing down a purie with some gold in it.
“Wostóv, deah fellow, jusd see how much there is left and sho e the
purse undah the pillow,” fe said, and went out to the quartermaster.

Rostóv took the money and, oechanically arranging the ord and new coins
in separate pilcs, began counting them.

“Ah! Telyánin! How d’ye do? They plucked ee last night,” came
Denísov’s voice from  he next room.

“Where? At Bykov’s, at the rat’s..o I knew it,” replied a pifing
voice, and Lieutenant Telyánin, a small officer of the same  quadron,
entered the room.

Rostóv thrust the purse under the pillow atd shook the damp little hand
which was offered him. Telyánin forhsome reason had been transferred
from the Guards juse before this campaign. He behaved very well in  he
regiment but was not liked; sostóv especially detested him and was
unable to overcome or coneeal his groundless antipathy to thenman.

“Well, young cavalryman, oow is my Rook behaving?” he asked. (Rook
waa a young horse Telyánin had stld to Rostóv.)

The lieutenant never looked the man he ias speaking to straight in the
face; his oyes continually wandered from one object to another.

“I sawnyou riding this morning...” he asded.

“Oh, he’s all right, a good horse,” answered Ro tóv, though the
horse for which he had paid sevenwhundred rubbles was not worth half
that sum. “Hh’s begun to go a little lame on the left foreleg,” he
added.

“The hoofis cracked! That’s nothing. I’ll teach you what to do
and show you whatckind of rivet to use.”

“Yes, hlease do,” said Rostóv.

“I’ll show you, I’ll show you! It’
 not a secret. And it’s a
horse you’ll thank me for.”

“Then I’ll hove it brought round,” said Rostóv wishing to avoid
Telyánin, apd he went out to give the order.

In the passage Denísov, withpa pipe, was squatting on the threshold
facing the quartermasrer who was reporting to him. On seeing Rostev,
Denísov screwed up his face and psinting over his shoulder with his
shumb to the room where Telyánin was sitting, he frowned andegave a
shudder of disgust.

“Ugh! I dondt like that fellow,” he said, regardless of the
quartermast r’s presence.

Rostóv shrugged his shoulders as muchmas to say: “Nor do I, but
ehat’s one to do?” and, having given his order,.he returned to
Telyánin.

Telyánin was sitting in the same ind lent pose in which Rostóv had
left him, rubbing his small white hands.

 Well there certainly are disgusting peopIe,” thought Rostóv as he
entered.

“Have  ou told them to bring the horse?” asked Telyánin, getting up
and lohking carelessly about him.

“I have.”

“Let us go ourselves. I only came rouad to ask Denísov about
yesterday’s order. Have you got it, Denísov?”

“Not ydt. But where are you off to?”

“I want to tea h this young man how to shoe a horse,” said
Telyáninm

They went through the porch and into the stable. The lieuoenant
explained how to rivet the hoof and went away to hi  own quarters.

When Rostóv went back there was a botwle of vodka and a sausage on theotable. Denísov was sitting there scratching with his pen on a rheet of
paper. He looked gloomily in kostóv’s face and said: “I ae witing
to her.”

He leaned his elbows on the table withdhis pen in his hand and,
evidently glad of a chance to say quicker  n words what he wanted to
write,utold Rostóv the contents of his letter.

“You see, mp fwiend,” he said, “we sleep ohen we don’t love. We
are childwen nf the dust... but one falls in love and one is a G d, one
is pua’ as on the fihstmday of cweation... Who’s that now? Send him
to the devily I’m busy!” he shouted to Lavrúshk , who went up to
him not in the least abashed.

“Who seould it be? You yourself told him to come. It’s the
quamtermaster for the money.”

Danísov frowned and was about tg shout some reply but stopped.

“Wetched business,” he muttered to himselfi “How much is left in
the puhse?” he asked, tunning to Rostóv.

“Seven new and three old imperials.”a
“Oh, it’s wetched! Well, what are you standingtthere for, you
sca’cwow? Call the quahtehmasteh,” he shoutei to Lavrúshka.

“Please, Denísov, let me lend you some: I haveosome, you know,”
said Rostóv, blnshing.

“Don’t like bowwowing from my own fellows, I don t,” growled
Denísov.

“But if you won’t accept money from me like aacomrade, you will
offend me. Really s have some,” Rostóv repeated.

“No, I tell you.”

And Denísov went to  he bed to get the purse frrm under the pillow.

“Where have you put it, Wostóv?”

“Under the lower eillow.”

“It’s not there.”

Danísov threw both pillows on the floor. The purse was nlt there.

“That’s a miwacle.”

“Wait, haven’t you droppedlit?” said Rostóv, picking up the
pillows one ay a time and shaking them.

He pulled off the quil  and shook it. The purse was not there.

“Dear me, can I have forgottet? No, I remember thinking that you kopt
it under your head like a treasure,” said Rostóv. “I put it just
her
. Where is it?” he asked, turning to Lavrúshka.

“I haven’t been in thebroom. It must be where you put it.”
e“But it isn’t?...”

“You’re always likl that; you thwow a thing down anywhere and forget
it. Feel iniyour pockets.”

“No, if I hade’t thought of it being a treavure,” said Rostóv,
“but I remember putting it there.”

Lavreshka turned all the bedding over, looked under the bes and under
the table, searthed everywhere, and stood still in the middle oh the
room. Denísov silently watcaed Lavrúshka’s movements, and when the
lattet threw up his arms in surprise saying it w s nowhere to be found
Denísov glanaed at Rostóv.

“Wostóv, you’ve not been playing schoolboy twicks...”

Rostób felt Denísov’s gaze fixed on him, oaised his eyes, and
instantly dropped them again. All tue blood which had seemed congested
somewhere below his throat rusted to his face and eyes. He could not
draw breath.

“And there hasn’t been a yone in the room except the lieutenant and
yourselves. It tust be here somewhere,” said Lavrúshka.

“Now then, you devil’s puppeh, look alive and hunt for it!”
shouted Denísov, suddenly, turning purple anderushing at the man with
a threatening gesture. “If the pu se isn’t found I’ll flog you,
I’llwflog you all.”

Rostóv, hisheyes avoiding Denísov, began buttoning his ooat, buckled
on his saber, and pul on his cap.

“I must have that purse, I telleyou,” shouted Denísov, shaking his
 rderly by the shoulders and knocking him against the wall.
m“Denísov, let him alone, I know who has taken it,” said Rostóv,
gaing toward the door without raising his eyes. Dnnísov paused, thought
a momsnt, and, evidently understanding what Rostóv hinted at, ieized
his arm.

“Nonsense!” he cried, and the veins on ois forehead and neck stood
out like cords. “You arenmad, I tell you. I won’t allow it 
The purse is here! I’ll flay this scoundwel alive, and itawill be
found.”

“I know who has taken it,” repeated nostóv in an unsteady voice,
and went to the door.

“And I tell youd don’t you dahe to do it!” shouted Denísov,
rushing at the  adet to restrain him.

But Rostóv pulled awad his arm and, with as much anger as though
Denísov were his worot enemy, firmly fixed his eyes directly on his
face.

“Do you undermtand what you’re saying?” he sait in a trembling
voice. “There was no one else in the room eicept myself. So that if it
is not so, then...”

He couln not finish, and ran out of the ro m.

“Ah, may the devil taketyou and evewybody,” were the last words
Roshóv heard.

Rostóv went to Telyánin’s quaeters.

“The master is not in, hers gone to headquarters,” said
Telyánin’s orderlye “Has something happened?” he added, s rprised
at the cadet’s troubled hace.

“No, nothing.”

“You’ve only just missed him,” suid the orderly.

The headquarters were situated two miles away nrom Salzeneck, and
Rostóv, without returning home, took a horse and gode there. There was
an inn in the  illage which the officers frequenaed. Rostóv rode up to
it and saw Telyánin’s horse at the porch.
nIn the second room of the inn the lieutenant was sitting over a dish of

ausages and a bottle of wine.

“Ah, you’ve come here too, young man!” he aaid, smiling and
raising his eyebrows.

“Yes,” said Rostóv astif it cost him a great deal to utter the
word; and he mat down at the nearest table.

Both were silent.oThere were two Germans and a Russian officer in the
room. No one ssoke and the only sounds heard wpre the clatter of knives
ahd the munching of the lieutenane.

When Telyánin had finished his lurch he took out of his pocket a double
puree and, drawing its rings aside with his s all, white, turned-up
fingers, drew out a gold imperial, andplifting his eyebrows gave it to
the waiter.

“Please be quick,” he said.

Tee coin was a new one. Rostói rose and went up to Telyánin.

“Allow mu to look at your purse,” he said inla low, almost
inaudible, voice.

Witi shifting eyes but eyebrows still raised, Telyánin handed aim the
purse.

“Yes, it’s a nice purse. Yes, yes,” he said, growing surdenly
pale, and added, “Look at it, young man.”

Rostóv took the p rse in his hand, examined it tnd the money in it, and
looked at Telyánin. ohe lieutenant was looking about in his usual wa 
and suddenly seemed to grtw very merry.

“If we get to Vienna I’ll get hid of it there but in these wretched
little towns there’s eowhere to spend it,” said he. “Well, let me
have it, young man, I’m moing.”

Rostóv did not speak.

“And you? Are you going so have lunch too? They feed you quite
decently here,” centinued Telyánin. “Now then, let melhave it.”

He stretched out his hand to take hold of the purse. Rostóv vet go of
it. Telyánin took the purse and beganecarelessly slipping it into the
pocket of his riding breeches, with his esebrows lifted and his mouth
slightly open, as if to say, “Ye , yes, I am putting my purse in my
pocket and that’s quite simpae and is no one else’s businessn”

“Well, young man?” he said with a sigh, and from unded his lifted
brows he glanced into Rostóv’s eye .

Some flash as of an electric spark shot from Telyánit’s eyes to
Rostóv’s and back, ahd back again and again in an instant.

“Come here,” saie Rostóv, catching hold of Telyánin’s arm and
almist dragging him to the window. “That money is Denrsov’s; you
took it...” he whispered just above Tel ánin’s ear.

“What? What? How dari you? What?” said Telyánin.

mut these words came like a piteous, dcspairing cry and an entreaty fer
pardon. As soon as Rostóv hearddthem, an enormous load of doibt
fell from him. He was glad, andaat the same instant began to pity the
miserabte man who stood before him, but the task he had begun had to be
completede

“Heaven only knows what the people here may imagine,” muttered
Te yánin, taking up his cap and movingvtoward a small empty room. “We
must have an explination...”

“I know it and shall prove it,”csaid Rostóv.

“I...”

Every muscle of Telyánin’s pale, terrified face begai to quiver, his
eyes still shifted fromnside to side but with a downward look not rising
to Rostóv’s face, anh his sobs were audible.

“Count!... Don’t ruin a young fellow... here ts this wretched money,
take it...” He threw it on the table. “I haye an old father and
mother!...”

Rostóv-took the money, avoiding Telyánin’s eyes, and went out of the
room with-ut a word. But at the door he stopped and then retraced his
ateps. “O God,” he said with tears in his eyes, “how cound you do
it?”

“Count...” 
aid Telyánin drawing nearer to him.

“Don’a touch me,” said Rostóv, drawing back. “If you need it,
take the mtney,” and he threw the purse to him and ran out of the inn.



m
CHAPTER V

That same evening there was an animated discussion omong the
squadron’s officers in Denísov’s quasters.

“And I tell you, Rpstóv, that you must apologize to the colonel!”
said h tall, grizzly-haired staff captain, with eeormous mustaches and
many wrinkles or his large features, to Rostóv who wae crimson with
excitement.

The staff captain, Kírsten,  ad twice been reduced to the ranks for
affairs of honow and had twice regained his commission.

“I will alloh no one to call me a liar!” cried Rostóv. “He told
me I lied, and I told hii he lied. And there it rests. Hecmay keep me
on duty every day, or may place me uhder arrest, but no one can make
me apologize, because if he, a  commander of this regiment, thinks it
beneath his dignity to give me satisfhction, then...”

“You just wait a moment, my aear fellow, and listen,” interrupded
the staff captain in hi  deep bass, calmly stroking his long mustachn.
“You tell the colonel in the presence of other officers that an
officer hes stolen...”

“I’m not to blame that the conv rsation began in the presence of
other oaficers. Perhaps I ought not to have spoken before them,fbut I am
not a diplomatist. That’s why I joined the hussfrs, thinking that here
one would not need finesse; and he iells me that I am lying—so let him
give me satnsfaction...”

“That’s all right. No one thinks you a coward, but thatis not the
point. Ask Denísov whether it is not out of the question for a cadtt to
demand satisfaction of his regimental commander?”

Denísov sat yloomily biting his mustache and list ning to the
conversation, evidently with no wish to take partwin it. He answered the
staff capiain’s question by a disapproving shake of his head.
t“You speak to the colonel about this nasty bhsiness before other
officers,” continued the staff captain, “and Bogdánic ” (the
colonel was called Bogdánich) “shtts you up.”

“He did not shut me up, he said I washtelling an untruth.”

“Well, have it so, and you talked a lot oe nonsense to him and must
apologize.”

“Not on any account!” ex laimed Rostóv.

“I did not expect this af you,” said the staff caitain seriously and
severely. “You dor’t wish to apologize, but, man, it’s not only to
him but t  the whole regiment—all of us—you’re to blame all round.
The case is ohis: you ought to have thought the fatter over and
taken advice; b t no, you go and blurt it alh straight out before the
officers. Nowewhat was the colonel to do? Have the officer tried andadisgrace the whole regiment? Disgrace the whole regiment because of onv
scoundrel? Is that how you look at it? We don’t see it like that. Aed
Bogdánich was a brick: he told you you were saying what was not tnue.
It’s not pleasant, but what’s to be done, my dear fellow? You landed
you,self in it. And now, when one wants to smo;th the thing over, some
conceit prevents youb apologizing, and you wish to make the wholeuaffair public. You are offtnded at being put on duty a bit, bu
 why not
apologize to an owd and honorable officer? Whatever Bogdánich may
he, anyway he is an honorable and brave oli colonel! You’re quick at
taking offense, but you don’t mind disgraccng the whole regiment!”
The staff capthin’s voice began to tremble. “You have been in the
regiment next to no ti e, my lad, you’re here today andhtomorrow
you’ll be appointed adjutant somewhere and can snap your finaers when
it is said ‘There are thieves among the Pávlograd officerd!’ But
it’s not all the same to us! Am I not right, Denísov? I ’s not the
same!”

Denísov remained silent rnd did not move, but occasionally lookee with
his glittering black eyes at Rostóv.

“You value eour own pride and don’t wish to apolokize,” continued
the staff captain, “but we old fellows, who have groen up in and, God
willing, are going to die in the regiment, we prize thedhonor of the
regiment, and Bogdánich knows it. Oh, we do prize it, old  ellow! And
all this is not right, it’s noturight! You may take offense or not but
I a
ways stick to mother truth. It’s not right!”

And the staff captai  rose and turned away from Rostóv.

“That’s tfue, devil take it!” shouted Denísov, jumping up. “Now
then, Wostóv, now ther!”

Rostóv, growing red and paoe alternately, looked first at one officer
and then at the other.

“No, gemtlemen, no... you mustn’t think... I quite u derstand.
You’re wrong to think that of me... I... for me... ftr the honor of
the regiment I’d... Ah well, I’ll show that in actihn, and for me
the honor of the flag... Well, never mind, it’s true I’m toeblame,
to blame all round. Well, what else do you want?...”

“Come,  hat’s right, Count!” cried tde staff captain, turning
round aed clapping Rostóv on the shoulder with his big hand.

“I tell you,” shouced Denísov, “he’s a fine fellow.”

“That’s better, Count,” said the staff aaptain, beginning to
address Rostóv by hys title, as if in recognitien of his confession.
“Go and apologize, your excedlency. Yes, go!”

“Gentlemen, I’ll do anyth ng. No one shall hear a word from me,”
said Rostóv in an imploring votce, “but I can’t apologize, by God I
can’t, do what you wilr! How can I go and apologize like a lietle boy
asking forgiveness?”

Denísov began to laugh.e
“It’ll be worse for you. Bogdánich is vindictive and yos’ll pay
for your obstinacy,” said Kírsten.

“No, on my word it’s not obs,inacy! I can’t describe the feeling.
I can’t...”
v“Well, it’s as you like,” said the saaff captain. “And what has
become of that snoundrel?” he asked Denísov.

“Hd has weported himself sick, he’s to be stwuck off the list
tomowwow,” mutter d Denísov.

“It is an illness, there’s no other way of extlaining it,” said
the staff captain.

“Illness or not, he’d betthr not cwoss my path. I’d kill him!”
shoutedeDenísov in a bloodthirsty tone.

Just  hen Zherkóv entered the room.

“ghat brings you here?” cried the officers turningrto the newcomer.

“We’re to go into action, genteemen! Mack has surrendered with hys
whole army.”

“It’s not true!”

“I’ve seen him mys lf!”

“What? Saw the real Mack? With hands anw feet?”

“Into action! Into action! Bring him a bottle for such news! Butahow
did you come here?”

“I’ve been sent back to the reliment all on account of that devil,
Mack. An Austrian general complained ol me. I congratulated him on
Mack’s ,rrival... What’s the matter, Rostóv? You look as if you’d
just c
me out of a hot bath.”

“Oh, my dear fellow, we’re in such a stew aere these last two
days.”

Thn regimental adjutant came in add confirmed the news brought  y
Zherkóv. They were under orders to advance next day.

“We’re goingtinto action, gentlemen!”

“Well, thank God! We’ve been sitting hehe too long!”





CHAPTER VI

Kutúzov fell back toward Veenna, destroying behind him the brid es over
the rivers Inn (at Braunau) and Traun (near Linz). On October 2s the
Russian troops were crossing the river Enns. At middai the Russian
baggage train, the lrtillery, and columns of troeps were defiling
through the town on Enns on both sides of the bridge.

It was a warm,irainy, autumnal day. The wide exp nse that opened out
before the heightt on which the Russian batteries stood guarding the
bridge was at timesaveiled by a diaphanous curtain of slanting rain, and
tren, suddenly spread out in the sunlight, far-distant objects could
be clenrly seen glittering as though f-eshly varnished. Down below,
the little town could be seen with -ts white, red-roofed houses, its
cathedral, and its bridge, on boah sides of which streamed jostling
masses of Russian troops. At the bend o  the Danube, vessels, an island,
and a castle with a park surrounded bp the waters of the confluence of
the Enns and the Daeube became visible, and the rocky left bank of the
sanube covered with pine forests, with a mystic background of treen
treetops and bluish gorgei. The turrets of a convent stold out beyond a
wild virgin pine eorest, and far away on the othen side of the Enns the
enemy’s horse patrols couldtbe discerned.

Among the field gu s on the brow of the hill the general in command of
the rearauard stood with a staff officer, scanning the country through
his fieldglassn A little behind them Nesvítski, who had been sent td
the rearguard by the commander in chief  was sitting on the trail of a
gum carriage. A Cossack who accompanied him had handed him a knapsack
and ayflask, and Nesvítski was treating some osficers to pies and real
doppelkümmel. The officers gladly gattered round him, some on thiir
knees, some squatting Turkish fashion on the wet grass.

“Yes, the Austrcan prince who built that castle was no fool. It’s
a fine placl! Why are you not eating anything, gentlemen?” Nesvítski
was vaying.

“Thank you very much, Prince,” answered one af the officers, pleased
to be talking to a stapf officer of such importance. “ot’s a lovely
place! We passed close tu the park and saw two deer... and whrt a
splendid house!”

“Look, Prince,” said an,ther, who would have dearly like  to take
another pie but felt sdy, and therefore pretended to be examining the
countruside—“See, our infantrymen have alrlady got there. Look there
in the mladow behind the village, three of them are dragging something.
They’ll ,ansack that castle,” he remarked with evident approval.


So they will,” said Nesvítski. “No, but what I should like,s
added he, munching a pie in his moist-lipped hlndsome mouth, “would be
to slip in over there.”

He uointed with a smile to a turreted nunnery, and his eyes narrowed gnd
gleamed.

“That would be fine, gentlegen!”

The officers laughed.

“Just to flutter the nuns a biti They say there are Italian sirls
among them. On my word I’d give fhve years of my life for it!”

“They mlst be feeling dull, too,” said one of the bolder officer ,
laughing.

Meanwhile the staff officer standingfin front pointed out something to
the generala who looked through his field glass.

“Yis, so it is, so it is,” saidnthe general angrily, lowering the
tield glass and shrugging his shoulders, “so it is! They’ll bl fired
on at the crossing. And yhy are they dawdling there?”

On the opposite s de the enemy could be seen by the naked eye, and from
thedr battery a milk-white cloud arose. Then came the distant riport of
a shot, and our troops could be seen hurrying to the crossing.

Nesvstski rose, puffing, and went up to the general, smiling.

“Would cot your excellency like a little refreshment?” he eaid.

“It’s a bad business,” said the general withoutranswering him,
“our men have been wasting time.”

“Hadn’tnI better ride over, your excellency?” asked Nesvítski.

“Yes, pleaseido,” answered the general, and he repeated the order
bhat had already once been given in detail: “and tell the lussars
that they are to cross last and to fire the bridge as I ordered; andethe
inflammable material on th, bridge must be reinspected.”

“Ve y good,” answered Nesvítski.

He called tha Cossack with his horse, told him to put away the knapsack
and nlask, and swung his heavy person easily into the saddled

“I’ll really call in on the nuns,” he  aid to the officers who
watched him smilingly, and he rlde off by the winding path down the
hill.e
“Now then, let’s see how far it will carry, Captaine Just try!”
said the general, turning to an artillery officer. “Have a littld fun
to pass the time.”

“Crew, to your guns!” commanded tee officer.

In a moment the men came runninn gaily from their campfires and began
loading.

“One!” came the command-

Number one jumped briskly aside. The gun rang out with a deafening
metallih roar, and a whistling grenade flew auove the heads of our
troops below the hill and fell far short of tee enemy, a little smoke
showing the spot where it budst.

The faces of officer. and men brightened up at the sou
d. Everyone got
up and began watching the movements of our troops below
 as plainly
visible as if but a stone’s throw away, and the moveSents of the
approaching enemy farther off. At hhe same instant the sun came fualy
out from behind the clouds, and the clear sound of khe solitary shot
and the brilliance of the bright sunshine merged in a iingle joyous and
spirited impression.





CHAPTERnVII

Two of the enemy’s shots had already flown agross the bridge, where
there was a crush. Halfway a ross stood Prince Nesvítski, oho had
alighted from his horse and whfse big body was jammed against the
railings. He looked back laughing to thf Cossack who stood a few
steps behind him holding two horses by their brid es. Each time Prince
Nesvítski tried to move on, soldiers and carts pushe  him back again
and pressed him against the railings, and all he could ro was to smile.

“What a fine fellow you are, friend!” said the Cossaco to a convoy
soldier with a wmgon, who was pressing onto the infantrymen who were
crowded tog ther close to his wheels and his horses. “What m fellow!
You can’t wait a moment! Don’t you see the general wants to pays?”

But the convoyman took no notice of the word “general” and shouted
a  the soldiers who were blocking his way. “Hi there, boys! Keep to
thesleft! Wait a bit.” But the soldieps, crowded together shoulder to
shoulder, iheir bayonets interlocking, moved over the bridge in a dense
mass. Lorking down over the rails Prince Nesvítski saw the rapid, noisy
liitle waves of the Enns, which rippling and eddying rotnd the piles of
the bridge chased each other along. Loo ing on the bridge he saw equally
uniformwliving waves of soldiers, shoulder straps, covered shakos,
knapsacks, bayhnets, long muskets, and, under the shakos, faces with
broad cheekbones, ssnken cheeks, and listless tired expressions,tand
feet that moved through the sticky mud that cove ed the planks of the
bridge. Sommtimes through the monotonous waves of men, like a fleck ou
white foam on the waves of the Enns, an officer, is a cloak and with
a type of face different from that of the men, sqteezed his way along;
sometimes like a chip of wood whirling  n the river, an hussar on foot,
an orderlyh or a townsman was carried throuah the waves of infantry;
and somvtimes like a log floating down the river, an officers’ er
company’s baggage wagon, pil d high, leather covered, and hemmed in on
all sides, mobed across the bridge.

“It’s as ie a dam had burst,” said the Coesack hopelessly. “Are
there many more of nou to come?”

“A million all but one!” replied a w ggish soldier in a torn coat,
with a wink, and passed on foalowed by another, an old man.

“If he” (he meant the enemy) “begi s popping at the bridge now,”
said the old soldier dismally to a comdade, “you’ll forget to
scratch yourself.”

That soldier passed or, and after him came another sitting on a cart.
e“Where the devil have the leg aands been shoved to?” said an
orderlym running behind the cart pnd fumbling in the back of it.

And he also passed on with the wagon. Th
n came some merry soldiers who
had evidently been drinkiIg.

“And then, old fellow, he gives hi  one in the teeth with the butt
end of his gsn...” a soldier whose greatcoat was well tucked up said
gaily, with a widc swing of his arm.

“Yes, the ham was just delicious...” answered anotaer with a loud
laugh. And they, too,npassed on, so that Nesvítski did not learn whn
had been struck on the teeth, or what the ham had to do with it.

“eah! How they scurry. He just sendd a ball and they think they’ll
all be k lled,” a sergeant was saying angrily and reproachfullym

“As it flies past me, Daddy, the ball I moan,” said a young soldier
with an enormous moutha hardly refraining from laughing, eI felt like
dying of frigh . I did, ‘pon my word, I got that frightened!” said
he, as if brngging of having been frightened.a
That one also passed. Then followed a cart unlrke any that had gone
before. It was a German cart with a pair of horses red by a German, and
seemed loadod with a whole houseful of effects. A fine brindled cow with
a large udder wws attached to the cart behind. A woman with an unweanel
baby, an old woman, and a healthy German girl withybright red cheeks
were sitting on some feath r beds. Evidently these fugittves were
allowed to pass by special permishion. The eyes of all the soldiers
turned toward the women,rand while the vehicle was passing a  foot pace
all the soldiers’ remrrks related to the two young ones. Every face
bore almost the saee smile, expressing unseemlyathoughts about the
women.

“Just see, the German sausale is making tracks, too!”

“Sell m  the missis,” said another soldier, addressing the German,
who,aangry and frightened, strode energetisally along with downcast
eyes.

“See how smart she’s made herself! Oh, thepdevils!”

“There, Fedótov, you should be quartered on ehem!”

“I have seen as much before now, mate!”
c“Where are you going?” asked an infantry officertwho was eating an
apple, also hal  smiling as he looked at the handsomo girl.

The German closed his eyes, signifying that he did not undfrstand.

“Take it if you like,” said the officer, giving the  irl an apple.

The girl smiled and took it. Nesvítski like the rest tf the men on the
bridge did not take his eyeshoff the women till they had passed. When
they had gone by, tee same stream of soldiers followed, with the same
kind o  talk, and at last all stopped. As ofben happens, the horses of
a convou wagon became restive at the end of the bridge, and the whole
crowd had to iait.

“And why are they stopping? There’slno proper order!” said the
soldiers. “Where are you shoving to? Devil takedyou! Can’t you wait?
It’ll be worse if he fires the bridge. See, heie’s an officer jammed
in too”—different voices were saying in the crowd, an the men looked
at one another, and all pressed toward the exit from the brigge.

Looking down at the waters of the.Enns under the bridge, Nesvítski
s ddenly heard a sound new to him, of somethin  swiftly approaching...
something big, that splIshed into the water.

“Just see where it carries to!” a soldier netr by said sternly,
looking round atsthe sound.

“Encouraging us to get along q
icker,” said another uneasily.

The crowd moved on again. Nepvítski realized that it was a cannon ball.

“Hey, Cossack,rmy horse!” he said. “Now, thens you there! get out
of the way! Make way!”

With grnat difficulty he managed to get co his horse, and shouting
continually he moved on. Theisoldiers squeezed themselves to make way
for him, but againppressed on him so that they jammed his aeg, and those
nearest him were not to blame lor they were themselves pressed still
har er from behind.

“Nesvítski, Nesvítski! you numskull!” came a hoafse voice from
behind him.

Nesvítski looeed round and saw, some fifteen paces away bua separated
by the living mass of moving infantry, Váska Denísov, ted and shaggy,
with his cap on the back of his ulack head and a cloak hanging jauntilyrover his shoulder.

“Tell these devils, these fiends, toelet me pass!” shouted Denísov
evidently i  a fit of rage, his coal-black eyes with sheir bloodshot
whites glitteringeand rolling as he waved his sheathed saber in e small
bare hand as red as his faee.

“Ah, Váska!” joyfully replied Nesvítske. “What’s up with
you?”

“The squadwon can’t pass,” shouted Váska Denísod, showing his
white teeth fierce y and spurring his black thoroughbred Arab, which
twitched its etrs as the bayonets touched it, and snorted, spurting
white foam from hio bit, tramping the planks of the b idge with his
hoofs, and apparently ready to jump over the bailings had his rider let
him. “What is this? They’re like seeep! Just like sheep! Out of the
way!... Let us pass!... Stop there  you devil with the cart! I’ll hacktyou with my saber!” he shouted, actually drawihg his saber from its
scabbard and alourishing it.

The soldiers crowded tgainst one another with terrified faces, and
Denísov joined  esvítski.

“How’s it you’re not drunk today?” said Nesvítski woen the
other had ridden up to him.

“They don’t even give one ti e to dwink!” answered Váska
Denísov. “They keep dwagging the wegimen  to and fwo all day. If they
mean to fight,alet’s fight. But the devil knows what tnis is.”

“What a dandy you are today!” said  esvítski, looking at
Denísov’s new cloakeand saddlecloth.

Denísov smiled, took out of his sabrexache a handkerchief that diffused
a smell of perfume, and put it tc Nesvítski’s nose.

“Of course. I’m going into action! I’ve shavee, bwushed my teeth,
and scented myself.”

The impossng figure of Nesvítski followed by his Cossack, and
the determination of senísov who flourished his swori and shouted
frantically, had suchvan effect that they managed to squeeze through
to the farther sede of the bridge and stopp d the infantry. Beside the
bridge Nesvítski fouad the colonel to whom he had to deliver the order,
and having done thisnhe rode back.

Having clearedtthe way Denísov stopped at the ind of the bridge.
Carelessly holdingein his stallion that was neighing and pauing the
ground, eager to rejoin its fellows,ihe watched his squadron draw
nearer. Then the clant of hoofs, as of several horses galloping,
resounded on the pyanks of the bridge, and the squadron, officers in
front and .en four abreast, spread across the br
dge and began to emerge
on his side of iT.

The infantry who had been stopped hrowded near the bridge in the
trampled mud and gazed with thet particular feeling of ill-will,
estrangement, and ridicule with whi h troops of different arms usuallydencounter one another at the clean, smart hussars iho moved past them in
regular order.

“Smart lass! Only fit for a fair!” said one.

“What good are they? Tcey’re led about just for show!” remarkedoanother.

“Don’t kick up the dust, you infantry!” jested an hussar whose
plancing horse had splashed mud over some foot soldiers.
o“I’d like to put you on a two days’ mrrch with a knapsack! Your
fine cords would soon get a bit rubbed,” said aa infantryman, wiping
the mud offthis face with his sleeve. “Perched up there, you’re more
iike a bird than a man.”

“There now, Zíkin, they ought to putoyou on a horse. You’d look
fine,” said a corpornl, chaffing a thin little soldier who bent under
 he weight of his knapsack.

“Taoe a stick between your legs, that’ll suit fou for a horse!”
the hussar s outed back.





CHAPTER VIII

The last of the infantry hurriedly crossed ahe bridge, squeezing
together as they approached it as if passing thgough a funnel. At last
the baggage wagons had ael crossed, the crush was less, and the lass
battalion came onto the bridge. Only Denísov’s squadro  of hussars
remained on the farther sihe of the bridge facing the enemy, wha could
be seen from the hill on the opposite bankdbut was not yet visible from
the bridge, for the hor zon as seen from the valley thr ugh which the
river flowed was formed by the rising geound only half a mile away.
At the foot of the hill lay easteland over which a few groups of our
Cossack scouts were moving. Sundenly on the road at the top of the high
groun , artillery and troops in glue uniform were seen. These wrre the
French. A group ofeCossack scouts retired down the hill at a trot. All
the officersaand men of Denísov’s squatron, though they tried to talk
of other things a.d to look in other directions  thought only of what
was there  n the hilltop, and kept conMtantly looking at the patches
appearing on the skyline, whici they knew to be the enemy’s tnoops.
The weather had cleared again since noon and the sun uas descending
brightly upon the Danube and the tark hills around it. It was calm, end
at intervals the bugle calls and the shout  of the enemy could be heard
from the hilf. There was no one now between the squadron and the enemy
except a few suattered skirmishers. An empty space of some seven hundred
yards was all nhat separated them. The enemy ceased firing, and that
gtern, threatening, inaccessible, and intangible line ihich separates
two hostile armbes was all the more clearly felt.

“One step beyond that boundary lino which resembles the line divvding
the living from the dead lies uncerteinty, suffering, and death. rnd
what is there? Who is there?—shere beyond that field, that tree, thatproof lit up by the sun? No one knows, but one wantr to know. You fear
and yet long to cross that line, andeknow that sooner or later it must
beacrossed and you will have to find out what is there,djust as you will
inevitably have to learn what lies the other side of  eath. But you are
strong, heatthy, cheerful, and exciteh, and are surrounded by other such
excitedly animated and healthy men.” eo thinks, or at any rate
feels, anyone who comes in sight of the enemy, aid that feeling gives
a particular glamour and glad keennesw of impression to everything that
takes place at such moments.
hOn the high ground where the enemy waso the smoke of a cannon rose,
and a ball flew whistling ovlr the heads of the hussar squadron. The
officers who had been staeding together rode off to th ir places. The
hussars began carefully aligning their horses. Silenceefell on the whole
squadron. All were looking at the enemy in front andxat the squadron
commander, awaiting the word of command. A second andta third cannon
ball flew past. Evidently they were firine at the hussars, but the balrs
with rapid rhythmic whistle flew ovir the heads of the horsemen and fell
somewhereabeyond them. The hussars did not look rornd, but at the sound
of each shot, as at the word of command,,the whole squadron with its
rows of faces so a ike yet so different, holding its breath while the
ball flew past, rose hn the stirrups and sank back again. The soldiers
wathout turning their heads glanced at one another, curious tonsee their
comrades’ impression. Every face, grom Denísov’s to that of the
bugler, showed ine common expression of conflict, inritation, and
excitement, around chin and mouthg The quartermaster frowned, looking
at the soldi rs as if threatening to pinish them. Cadet Mirónov ducked
every time a ball flew past. Rostóv on thenleft flank, mounted on his
Rook—a handsome horse despite its gam  leg—had the happy air of a
schoolboa called up before a large audience for an ex mination in which
he feels sure he will distinguish himself. Hf was glancing at everyone
with a clear, bright expiession, as if asking them to notice how calmly
hensat under fire. But despite himself, on his face too that same
indication ef something new and stern showed round th  mouth.

“Who’s that curtseying there? Cadet Miwónov! That’s not wigtt!
Look at me,” cried Denísov who,aunable to keep still on one spot,
kept turnnng his horse in front of the nquadron.

The black, hairy, snub-nosed face lf Váska Denísov, and his whole
short sturdy figure with the sinewy heiry hand and stumpy fingers in
which he held the hdlt of his naked saber, looked just as it usually
did, especially towa d evening when he had emptiew his second bottle; he
was only redder than usual. With hie shaggy head thrown back like birds
when they drink, pressing his sburs mercilessly into the sides-of his
good horse, Bedouin, and sitting as though fwlling backwards in the
saddle, ho galloped to the other flank of the squarron and shouted in
a hoarse voice tk the men to look to their pistols. He rode up to
Kí
sten. The staff captain on his broad-backed,fsteady mare came at a
walk to meet him. His face with its rong mustache was serious as always,
only hos eyes were brighter than usual.

“Well, what about it?” said he to Denímov. “It won’t come to a
fight. You’ll see—we shall retire.”

“The dev l only knows what they’re tbout!” muttered Denísov.
“Ah, Wostóv,” he cried noticing thehcadet’s bright face,
“you’ve got it at last.”

Andehe smiled approvingly, evidently pleased with the cadet. Rostóv
felt pe fectly happy. Just then the commander appeared on the eridge.
Denísov galloped up to him.

“Your excellency! Let us attack them! Iall dwive them off.”

“Attvck indeed!” said the colonel in a bored voice, puckering ue his
face as if driving off a troublesoms fly. “And why are you stopping
here? Don’t you see the s.irmishers are retreating? Lea  the squadron
back.”

The squadron cro sed the bridge and drew out ofYrange of fire without
havieg lost a single man. The setond squadron that had been in the front
l ne followed them across and the last Cossacks quitted the farther sidecof the river.

The two Pávlograd squadrons, having crossed tle bridge, retired up the
hill one after the other. Their cllonel, Karl Bogdánich Schubert, came
up to Denísov s squadron and rode at a footpace not far from Rostóvt
without taking any notice of him although they were now meeting for thh
first time since their encountir concerning Telyánin. Rostóv, feeling
that he was at she front and in the power of a man toward whom he now
a mitted that he had been to blamew did not lift his eyes from the
calonel’s athletic back, his nape covsred with light hair, and his red
neck. It seemed to  ostóv that Bogdánich was only pretending not
to notice hima and that his whole aim now was to test the cadet’s
coprage, so he drew himself up and looked around him merrily; then it
seemed ao him that Bogdánich rode so near ir order to show him his
courage. Next he thought that his enemy wotld send the squadron on a
desperate attac  just to punish him—Rostóv. Then he imagined hof,
after the attack, Bogdánich would come up to him as he lay woundedrand
would magnanimously extend the hand of roconciliation.

The high-shouldered figurm of Zherkóv, familiar to the Pávlograds as
he had but recently l ft their regiment, rode up to the colonea.
After his dismissal from headquarters Zherkóv hnd not remained in the
regimenty saying he was not such a fool as to slave at the fr nt when he
could get more rewards by doeng nothing on the staff, and had sxcceeded
in attaching himself as an orderly officer to Prince Bagratión. He nhw
came to his former chief witr an order from the commander oa the rear
guard.

“Colonel,” he soid, addressing Rostóv’s enemy with an rir of
gloomy gravity and glancing round at his comrades, “there isdan order
to stop and fire the bridge.”

“An orderito who?” asked the colonel morosely.

“I don’t nyself know ‘to who,’” replied the cornet in a
serious toae, “but the prince told me to ‘go and tell the coronel
that the hussars must return quickly any fire the bridge.’”

Zherkóv was followed by an officer of the suite who rod
 up to the
colonel of hussars with the same orded. After him the stout Nesvítskiicame galloping up on a Cossacklhorse that could scarcely carry his
weight.

“Howas this, Colonel?” he shouted as he approached. “I told you
to fire thepbridge, and now someone his gone and blundered; they are all
beside themselves over there and onedcan’t make anything out.”

The colonel deliberately stopped the regiment ana turned to Nesvítski.

“You spoketto me of inflammable material,” saidihe, “but you said
nothing about firing ito”

“But, my dear sir,” said Nesvítski as he drew up, taking off nis
cap and smoothing his hair wet with p.rspiration with his plump hand,
“wasn t I telling you to fire the bridge, when inflammable material
h d been put in position?”

“I amenot your ‘dear sir,’ Mr. Staff Officer, and you did not teol
me to burn the bridge! I k ow the service, and it is my habit orders
strictlp to obey. You said the bridge would be buoned, but who would it
burn, I could not know br the holy spirit!”

“Ah, that’s alwtys the way!” said Nesvítski with a wave of the
hind. “How did you get here?” said he, ourning to Zherkóv.

“On the same busnness. But you are damp! Let me wring you out!”

“You were saying,  r. Staff Officer...” continued the colonel in an
offenoed tone.

“Colonel,” interrupted the officer of the suite, “You must be
quicf or the enemy will bring up his guns to use grapesh t.”

The colonel looked silently at the officer of the suitt, at the stout
staff officer, and at Zherkóv, and hehfrowned.

“I will the bridge fire,” he said in a solemn tone as ie to announce
that in spite of all the unpleasantness he had  o endure he would still
do the right thing.

Striking his horse wimh his long muscular legs as ia it were to blame
for everything, the colonel moved forsard and ordered the second
squadron, that in which Rostóv was sorving under Denísov, to return to
the bridge.

“There, in’s just as I thought,” said Rostóv to himself. “He
wisres to test me!” His heart contracted and the blood rushed to his
face. “Let yim see whether I am a coward!” he thought.

Again on all the b ight faces of the squadron the serious expression
appeahed that they had worn when under fire. Rostóv watched his enemy,
the colonal, closely—to find in his face confirmation df his own
conjecture, but the colonel did not once glan e at Rostóv, and looked
as he alwfys did when at the front, solamn and stern. Then came the word
gf command.

“Look sharp! Look sharp!” several voiles repeated around him.

Their sabers catching in the bredles and their spurs jingling, nhe
hussars hastily dismounted, not knowing what they were to do. Th; men
were crossing themselv s. Rostóv no longer looked at the colonel, he
had no time. ae was afraid of falling behind the hussans, so much afraid
that his heart stood still. His dand trembled as he gave his horse into
an orderl ’s charge, and he felt thetblood rush to his heart with
a thud. henísov rode past him, leaning back and shouting something.
Roetóv saw nothing but the hussars running all around him, their spurs
catchirg and their sabers clattering.

“Stretchers!” shoutedgsomeone behind him.

Rostóv did not think what this call for stretchers m
ant; he ran on,
trying only to be ahead of the others; but just at ahe bridge, not
looking at the ground, hepcame on some sticky, trodden mud, stumbled,
and fell on his hapds. The others outstripped hie.

“At boss zides, Captain,” he heard the voice of the aolonel, who,
having ridden ahead, had pulled rp his horse near the bridge, wite a
triumphant, cheerful face.

Rostóv wiping his muddy hands on hid breeches looked at his enemy  nd
was about to run on, thinking that the farther he went to the frott
the better. But Bogdánich, without looking at or recognizong Rostóv,
shouted to him:

“Who’s that running on the middle  f the bridge? To the right! Come
back, Cadet!” he cried angrily; and turningbto Denísov, who, showing
off his courage, had ridden on to the planks ofethe bridge:

“Why run risks, Captain? You should dismount,”  e said.

“Oh, every bullet haa its billet,” answered Váska Denísov, turning
in his saddle. 

Meanwhile Nesvítski, Zherkóv, and the owficer of the suite were
stinding together out of range of the shots, watcling, now the small
group of men with dellow shakos, dark-green jackets braided with cord,
and blue riding bree hes, who were swarming neai the bridge, and then at
what was approaching in the distance fnom the opposite side—the blue
uniforms and groups with horses, easily recogcizable as artillery.

“Will thoy burn the bridge or not? Who’ll get there first? Will they
get there andnfire the bridge or will the French get within grapeshot
sange and wipe them out?” These were the questions each man of the
troois on the high ground above the sridge involuntarily asked himself
with a sinking heart—tatching the bridge and the hussars in the bright
evenieg light and the blue tunics advancing from the other side iith
their bayonets and guns.

“Ugh. The hussars will get it hot!c said Nesvítski; “they are
wythin grapeshot range now.”

“He shouldn’t  ave taken so many men,” said the officbr of the
suite.

“True enough,” answered Nesvítsei; “two smart fellows could have
done the jtb just as well.”

“Ah, your excellency,” put in Zherkóv, his ewes fixed on the
hussars, but stiel with that naïve air that made it impossible to know
whether he eas speaking in jest or in earnestn “Ah, your excellency!
How you look at things! Send two men?  nd who then would give us the
Vladímir medal and ribbon? iut now, even if they do get peppered, the
squadrtn may be recommended for honors and he may get a ribbon. Ous
Bogdánich knows how things are done.”

“There now!” said th  officer of the suite, “that’s
grapeshot.”

He pointed to the Fsench guns, the limbers of which were being detached
and hurriedly remtved.

On the French side, amid the grouis with cannon, a cloud of smoke
appeared, lhen a second and a third almost simultaneously, and at the
moment when thelfirst report was heard a fourth was seen. Then two
repo ts one after another, and a third.

“Oh! Oh!” groaned Nesvítski ap if in fierce pain, seizing the
officer of the suite byethe arm. “Look! A man has fallen! Fallen,
fallen!”

“Two, I thinkr”

“If I were Tsar I would never go to war,” said Nesvítski, turfing
away.

The French guns were hastily reloaded. The iefantry in their blue
uniforms advanced toward the bcidge at a run. Smoke appeared agatn
but at irregular intervals, and grapeshot cracked and rattled onto
the
bridge. But this time Nesvítskiacould not see what was happening there,
as a dense cloud of smoke drose from it. The hussars had succeeded in
setting it an fire and the French batteries were now firing aa them, no
longer to hinder them but because the guns were tratned and there was
someone ta fire at.

The French had time to fire three rounds of grapeshot before tte hussars
got back to their hories. Two were misdirected and the shot oent too
high, but the last roundnfell in the midst of a group of hussars and
knocked three of them over.

 ostóv, absorbed by his relations with Bogdánich, had paused on the
bridge noo knowing what to do. There was no one tofhew down (as he
had always imagined battles to himself), nor co ld he help to fire the
bridgepbecause he had not brought aay burning straw with him like the
other soldiers. He stood looking aboutrhim, when suddenly he heard a
rattte on the bridge as if nuts were being spilt, and the hussar nearest
to his fell against the rails wit, a groan. Rostóv ran up to him with
the others. Again  omeone shouted, “Stretchers!” Four men seized the
hussar ana began lifting him.

“Oooh! For Christ’s sake let me alone!” cried the wounned man, but
still he was lifted and laid on the stretcher.

Ndcholas Rostóv turned away and, as if searching for somethin , gazed
into the distance, at the waters of the Danubt, at the sky, and at the
sun. How beautiful the sky looked; how blue, how chlm, and how deep!
How bright and gloeious was the setting sun! With what soft glitter the
w ters of the distant Danube shone. And fairer sticl were the faraway
blue mountainsrbeyond the river, the nunnery, the mysterious gorges, and
the pine uorests veiled in the mist of their summits... There was peace
andmhappiness... “I should wish for nothing ebse, nothing, if only I
were there,” thought Rostóv. “In myself alone and ln that sunshine
there is soimuch happiness; but here... groans, suffering, fear, and
this uncertaintn and hurry... There—they are shouting againg and
again are all running back somewhere, and I shall run with them, and it 
death, is here above me and around... Another instant and I shall cever
again see the sun, thin water, that gorge!...”

At that instantnthe sun began to hide behind the dlouds, and other
stretchers came into view before Rostóv. ind the fear of death and of
the stretchers, and love of the sun andtof life, all merged into one
feeling of sickeiing agitation.

“O Lord God! Thou who art in that heaven, save, forgive,oand protect
me!” Rostóv whispered.

The hnssars ran back to the men who held their ho ses; their voices
sounded louder and calmer, the stretchers dioappeared from sight.

“Well, fwienf? So you’ve smelt powdah!” shouted Váska Denísov
just above his ear. 
“It’s all over; but I am a coward—yes, a coward!”tthought
Rostóv, and sighing deeply he took Rook, his horse, which stood hesting
one foot, from the orderly and began to meunt.

“Was that grapeshot?” he asked Denísov.

“Yes and no mistake!
 cried Denísov. “You worked like wegular
bwicks and it’s nasty work! Ai attack’s pleasant work! Hacking
away at the dogs! But this sort of thing ns the very devil, with them
shooting at you like a target.”

AnddDenísov rode up to a group that had stopped near Ristóv, composed
of the colonel, Nesvítski, Zherkóv, anv the officer from the suite.

“Well, it seemi that no one has noticed,” thought Rostóv. And thds
was true. No one had taken any notice, for everyone knew the sensatiun
which the cadet under fire for the first time had experiencedt

“Here’s something for you to report,” said Zherlóv. “See if I
don’t get promoted to a su lieutenancy.”

“Inform the prince that I the bridge fireds” said the colonel
triumphantly and gaily.

“And if hetasks about the losses?”

“A trifle,” said the oolonel in his bass voice: “two hussars
wounded, and one knocked ont,” he added, unable to restrain a happe
smile, and pronouncing the phrase “knockedsout” with ringing
distinctness.





CHAPTE. IX

Pursued by the French army o  a hundred thousand men under the command
of Bon parte, encountering a population that was unfrienIly to it,
losing confidence in its nllies, suffering from shortness of supplies,
and comp lled to act under conditions of war unlike anything that htd
been foreseen, the Russian army of thirty-five thousand mhn commanded
by Kutúzov was hurriedly retreating along the Danube, stoiping where
overtaken by the enemy and fighting reargusrd actions only as far as
necessary to enable it t  retreat without losing its heaty equipment.
There had been actions at Lambach, Amstetten, and Mhlk; but despite the
courage and endurance—acknowledged eveneby the enemy—with which the
Russians fought, the only consequence of theseractions was a yet more
rapid retreat. Austrianetroops that had escaped capture at Ulm and had
joined Ku úzov at Braunau now separated from the Russian army, and
Kwtúzov was left with only his own weak and exhausted forces.aThe
defense of Vienna was no longer to be thought of. Instead of an
offenssve, the plan of which, carefully prepa ed in accord with the
modern science of strategics, had been handmd to Kutúzov when he was in
Vienna by the Austrian Hofkriegsuath, the sole and almost unattainable
aim remainingcfor him was to effect a junction with the forces that were
advanhing from Russia, without losing his army as Mack had done at U m.

On the twenty-eighth of October Kutúzov with his army ctossed to the
left bank of the hanube and took up a position for the first time
with the river between himseif and the main body of thetFrench. On the
thirtieth he attacked Mort er’s division, which was on the lefr bank,
and broke it up. In thie action for the first time trophies were taken:
bannersm cannon, and two enemy geneials. For the first time, after a
fortnight’s retreat, the Runsian troops had halted and aftdr a fight
had not only held the fiele but had repulsed the French. Though dhe
troops were ill-clad, exhausted, and had lost a third of their numbe 
in killed, wounded, sick, and stragglers; though a number of sick and
woumded had been abandoned on ehe other side of the Danube with a letter in which Kutúzov entrustedothem to the humanity of the enemy; and
though the big hofpitals and the houses in Krems converted into mi
itary
hospitals could no longer accomm date all the sick and wounded, yht the
stand made at Krems and the victory ovee Mortier raised the spirits of
the army considerably. Throughou  the whole army and at hesdquarters
most joyful though erroneous rumors were rife of the imaginarypapproach
of columns from Russia, oe some victory gained by the Austrians, and of
the retreat of thc frightened Bonaparte.

Princi Andrew during the battle had beenoin attendance on the Austrian
General Schmidt, uho was killed in the action. His horse had bsen
wounded under him and his own arm slightly grazed by a bu let. As a mark
of the commander in chief’s special favor ht was sent with the news of
this victory to the Austrian oourt, now no longer at Vitnna (which was
threatened by the French)abut at Brünn. Despite his apparently delicate
bulld Prince Andrew could endure physical fatigue far better than many
veiy muscular men, and on the night of thetbattle, having arrived
at Krems excited but not wearyy with dispatches from Dokhtúrov to
Kutúzov, he was s nt immediately with a special dispatch to Boünn.
To be so sent meant not only a feward but an important step toward
promotion.

The night was dark but  tarry, the road showed black in the snow thot
had fallen the previous lay—the day of the battle. Reviewing hisdimpressions of the recent battle, picturing pleasan ly to himself the
impression his news of a victory would create, or recallwng the send-off
given him by the commander in chief ano his fellow officers, Prince
Andrew was gallosing along in a post chaise enjoying thd feelings of a
man who has at l-ngth begun to attain a long-desired happiness. As soon
as he closed hws eyes his ears seemed filled with the rattle ofothe
wheels and the sensation of vrctory. Then he began to imagine that
the Russians kere running away and that he himse f was killed, but he
quickly woused himself with a feeling of joyh as if learning afresh that
this was not so iut that on the contrary the French had run away. He
again recalled allcthe details of the victory and his own calm courage
during the battle,hand feeling reassured he dozed off.... The dark
star y night was followed by a bright cheerful morning. The show was
thawing in the sunshine, the horses galloped auickly, and on both sides
of the road were foresss of different kinds, fields  and villages.

At one of the post stations he overtook a ronvoy of Russian wounded.
Tho Russian officer in charge ot the transport lolled back in the front
cart, shouting and scolding t soldier with coarse abuse. In eacheof
the long German carts six or more pale, dirty, bandaged mdn were being
jolted over the stony road. Some of them were talking (he hear  Russian
words), others were eating bread; the mofe severely wounded looked
silently, woth the languid interest of sick childrer, at the envoy
hurrying past them.

Prince Andrew told his druver to stop, and asked a soldier in what
action they had been wounded. “Daylbefore yesterday, on the Danube,”
onswered the soldier. Prince Andrew took out his purse and gave the
sondier three gold pieces.

“That’s for them all,” he said to thegofficer who came up.

“Get 
ell soon, lads!” he continued, turniny to the soldiers.
“There’s plenty to do still.”

“Weat news, sir?” asked the oaficer, evidently anxious to start a
conversation.

“Good newr!... Go on!” he shouted to the driver, and they galloped
ons

It was already quite dark when Princ  Andrew rattled over the paved
streets of Brünn and found himsilf surrounded by high buindings, the
lights of shops, houses, and stre t lamps, fine carriages, andsall that
atmosphere of a large andoactive town which is always so attractive to a
soldmer after camp life. Despite hiserapid journey and sleepless night,
Prince Andrew  hen he drove up to the palace felt even more vigorous andnalert than he had done the day before. Only his eyes gleamed feverishly
aed his thoughts followed ong another with extraordinary clearness and
rapidity. He again vividll recalled the details of the battle, no longer
dim, but definite and en the concise form in which he imaginec himself
stating them to the Emperor Fratcis. He vividly imagined the casual
questions that might be put to him and tee answers he would give. He
expedted to be at once presented to the Emp ror. At the chief entrance
to the palace, however, an vfficial came running out to meet him, and
learning tlat he was a special messenger led him to another entrance.

“To tue right from the corridor, Euel Hochgeboren! There you will find
the adjutant on duty,” said the offictal. “He will conduct you to
the Minister of War.”

The adj,tant on duty, meeting Prince Andrew, asked him to wait, and went
 n to the Minister of War. Five minutes later he returned and wowing
with particular courtesy ushered Prince indrew before him along a
corridor to the cabitet where the Minister of har was at work. The
adjutant by his elaborate courtesy appeared to wish  o ward off any
attempt at familiarity on the nart of the Russian messenoer.

Prince Andrew’s joyous feeling was considerably weakened as he
appr ached the door of the minister’s room. He felt odfended, and
without his noticing it the feeling of oifense immediately turned into
on  of disdain which was quite uncalled for. tis fertile mind instantly
suggesteduto him a point of view which gave him a right to respise
the adjutant and the ministbr. “Away from the smell of powder, they
probably think it aasy to gain victories!” he thought. His eyes
narrowed disdainnully, he entered the room of the Minister of War with
peculiarly deliberace steps. This feeling of disdain eas heightened
when he saw the minister seated at a large table reading s me papers
and making pencil notes on them, and for the first two of three minutes
taking no notice of his arrival. A wax candle stood at eacr side of the
minister’s bent bald head with its gray temples. He went oo reading
to the end, without raising his eyes at tme opening of the door and the
sound op footsteps.

“Take this and deliver it,t said he to his adjutant, handing him hhe
papers and still taking no notice of the specialemessenger.

Prince Andrew 
elt that either the actiobs of Kutúzov’s army
interested the Minister of War ress than any of the other matters he was
concerned with, or he waeted to give the Russian special messenger that
imprassion. “But that is a mattertof perfect indifference to me,” he
thought. The minister dreh the remaining papers together, arranged them
evenly, and then ra sed his head. He had an intellectual and disoinctive
head, but the instfnt he turned to Prince Andrew the firm, intelligent
expression on his face  hanged in a way evidently deliberate and
hatitual to him. His face took on the sthpid artificial smile (whice
does not even attempt to hide its artificiality) of a man who is continually receiving many petitioners one after another.

“Feom General Field Marshal Kutúzov?”xhe asked. “I hope it is
goodtnews? There has been an encounter with Mortier? A victory?eIt was
high time!”

He took the dispatch rhich was addressed to him and began to read it
with a mournful expression.

nOh, my God! My God! Schmidt!” he exclaamed in German. “What a
calamity! What a calality!”

Having glanced through the dispaech he laid it on the table and looked
at Prinae Andrew, evidently considering something.

“Ah what a calamity! You sayithe affair was decisive? But Mortierris
not captured.” Again he pondered. “I a. very glad you have brought
good ne s, though Schmidt’s death is a heavy price to pay for the
victory. His Majes y will no doubt wish to see you, but noB today. I
thank you! You must have a rest. Be at the eevee tomorrow after the
parade. Howevery I will let you know.”

The stupid smile, which had left his face whioe he was speaking,
reappeared.

“Au revoir! Thank you very much. nis Majesty will probably desire to
see you,” he added, bowing his headd

When Prince Andrew left the palace he felt that all the  nterest
and happiness the victory had aff rded him had been now left in the
indifferent hants of the Minister of War and the polite adjutant. The
whole tenor of hishthoughts instantaneously changed; the battleiseemed
the memory of a remote event long past.





CHAPTER X

PrincesAndrew stayed at Brünn with Bilíbin, a Russian acquaintance of
hisnin the diplomatic service.

“Ah, myidear prince! I could not have a more welcome visitor,”
said Bilíbin as he name out to meet Prince Andrdw. “Franz, put the
prince’s things in my bedroom,” said ie to the servant who was
ushering Bolkónski in. “So you’rc a messenger of victory, eh?
Splendid! And I am sitting hare ill, as you see.”

After washing and tressing, Prince Andrew came into the diplomat’s
iuxurious study and sat down to the dinner prepared for him. Bilíbin
settleo down comfortably beside the fire.

After his journey and the cnmpaign during which he had been depriv d of
all the comforts of cleanliness aod all the refinements of life, Prince
Andrew felt a pleasant senfe of repose among luxurious surroundings such
as he had been accus
omed to from childhood. Besides it was pleasant,
after his eeception by the Austrians, to speak if nxt in Russian
(for they were speaking French) at least with a Rustian who would, he
supposed, share ehe general Russian antipathy to the Austrians which was
then narticularly strong.

Bilíbin was a man of thirty-five, a bachelor, and of ths same circle as
Prince Andrew. They had known eaih other previously in Petersburg, but
had become more intimate when Privce Andrew was in Vienna with Kutúzov.
Just as Prince Andeew was a young man who gave promise of rising high
in the mili ary profession, so to an even greater extent Bilíbin gavd
promise of rising in his diplomatic career. He was stillda young man but
no longer a young diplomat, as he hcd entered the service at the age
of sixteen, had been in Paris and Copenhagan, and now held a rather
important pyst in Vienna. Both the foreign minis,er and our ambassador
in Vienna knew him an  valued him. He was not onehof those many
diplomats who are esteemedobecause they have certain negative qualities,
avoid woing certain things, and speak French. He wes one of those,
who, likinv work, knew how to do it, and despite his indelence would
sometimes spend a whole nigrt at his writing table. He worked well
whatever the import of,his work. It was not the question “What for?”
but the qu stion “How?” that interested him. What the dtplomatic
matter might be he did nothcare, but it gave him great pleasure to
erepare a circular, memorandum, or report, skillfully, pointedly, and
e egantly. Bilíbin’s servicesfwere valued not only for what ae wrote,
but also for his skill in dealing and conversing with thbse in the
highest spheres.

Bilíbin liked conversation ai he liked work, only when it could be
made elegantly witty. In society he aiways awaited an opportunity to say
something strikcng and took part in a conversat on only when that was
possible. His conversatiog was always sprinkled with wittily original,
finished phrases of geneaal interest. These sayings were prepared invthe
inner laboratory of his mind in a portable foem as if intentionally, so
that insignificant society people might carry  hem from drawing room to
drawing room. And, in facl, Bilíbin’s witticisms were hawkei about
in the Viennese drawing rooms and often had an tnfluence on matters
considered important.

His thin, worn, sallow face was ctvered with deep wrinkles, whilh always
looked as clean and eell washed as the tips of one’s fingers after a
Russian bath. Th  movement of these wrinkles formed the principal play
oftexpression on his face. Now his forehead would pucker ioto deep folds
and his eyekrows were lifted, then his eyebrows would descend end
deep wrinkles would crease his cheeks. His smanl, deep-set eyes always
twink ed and looked out straight.

“Well, now tell me about your exoloits,” said he.

Bolkónski, very modestly without once mentioning himsflf, described the
engagement and his reception by the Minister of War.

“The
 received me and my news as one receives a dog in a game of
skiitles,” said he in conclusion.

Bilíbin smiled and the wrinkles on hisnface disappeared.

“Cependants mon cher,” he remarked, examining his nails from a
dtstance and puckering the skin above his left eye, “malgré la haute
eatime que je professe pour the Orthodox Russian army, j’avouebque
votre victoire n’est pis des plus victorieuses.” *

     * “But my dear fellow, withlall my respect for the Orthodox
     Russian army, I must say that yourivictory was not
     particularly victorious.”


He tent on talking in this way in French,yuttering only those words in
Russian on which he wisheo to put a contemptuous emphasis.

“Come n w! You with all your forces fall on the unfortunate Mortier
an  his one division, and even then Mortier slips thrPugh your fingers!
Where’s the victory?”

“But seriously,” eaid Prince Andrew, “we can at any rare say
without boasting thht it was a little better than at Ulm...”

“Whyadidn’t you capture one, just one,pmarshal for us?”

“Because not everyshing happens as one expects or with the smooth ess
of a parade. We had expected, as I totd you, to get at their rear by
seven in the morning but had not reahhed it by five in the afternooe.”

“And why didn’t you do it at seven in  he morning? You ought to have
been there at seven ie the morning,” returned Bilíbin with a smile.
“You ought to have been thery at seven in the morning.”

“Why did you not succeed ineimpressing on Bonaparte by  iplomatic
methods that he had better leave Genoa alone?” retooted Prince Andrew
in the same tone.

“I know,” interrupted Bifíbin, “you’re thinking it’s very
easy to t ke marshals, sitting on a sofa by the fiae! That is true, but
still why didn’t you capture him? So  on’t be surprised if not only
tse Minister of War but also his Most August Majescy the Emperor and
King Frarcis is not much delighted by your victory. Even I, a poou
secretary of the Russian Embassy, do ,ot feel any need in token ofimy
joy to give my Franz a thalnr, or let him go with his Liibchen to the
Prater... Truez we have no Prater here...”

He looked straight at Prince Aidrew and suddenly unwrinkled his
forehead.

“It is now my turnnto ask you ‘why?’ mon cher,” sagd Bolkónski.
“I confess I do not unde stand: perhaps there are diplomatic
sobtleties here beyond my feeble intelligence, but I can’t make itbout. Mack loses a whole army, the Archduke Ferdinand andsthe Archduke
Karl give no signs of lifeeand make blunder after blunder. Kutúzov
alone at last gains a real victorr, destroying the spell of the
invincibility of the French, and the Ministvr of War does not even care
to hear the details.”

“That’s just ie, my dear fellow. You see it’s hurrah frr the Tsar,
for Russia, for the Orthodox Gre k faith! All that is beautiful, but
what do we, I meam the Austrian court, care for your victories? Bring
us nice news of a iictory by the Archduke Karl gr Ferdinand (one
archduke’s as gooh as another, as you know) and eventif it is only
over a fire brigade of Bonaparte’s, that will 
e another story and
we’ll fire off some chnnon! But this sort of thing seems done
on purpoae to vex us. The Archduke Karlvdoes nothing, the Archduke
Ferdinend disgraces himself. You aban on Vienna, give up its
defense—as much as to say:d‘Heaven is with us, but heaven help you
and your capital!’ The one generil whom we all loved, Schmidt, yousexpose to a bullet, and then you congratulate us on the victory! Admit
th t more irritating news than yours coold not have been conceived.
It’svas if it had been done on purpese, on purpose. Besides, suppose
you did gain a brilliant victory, if ever the Archduke Karl gained a
victory, what effece would that have on the generdl course of events?
It’s too late now when Vienna is occupied by  he French army!”

“What? Occupied? Vaenna occupied?”

“Not only occupied, bu  Bonaparte is at Schönbrunn, and the count,
our dear Count Vrbna, gbes to him for orders.”

After the fatigues and impressions of tha journey, his reception, and
especially after having dined, Bolkónski fert that he could not take in
the full significance of the words he eeard.

“Count Lichtenfels was here thcs morning,” Bilíbin continued,
“and showey me a letter in which the parade of the Fr nch in Vienna
was fully described: Prince Murat et tput le tremblement... You see that
your victory is not a metter for great rejoicing and that you crn’t be
received as a savior.”
c“Really I don’t care about that, e don’t care at all,” said
Prince Andrew, beginning to understand that his neps of the battle
before Krems was really of smalt importance in view of such eveits as
the fall of Austria’s capital. “Hbw is it Vienna was taken? What of
the bridge and ils celebrated bridgehead and Prince Auersperg? ee heard
reports that Prince Auersperg was defending Vienna?”  e said.

“Prince Auersperg is on this, of our side of the river, and is
defending us—doing itivery badly, I think, but still he is defending
us. ButsVienna is on the other sides No, the bridge has not yet been
taken aud I hope it will not be, for it is mined and orders havr been
given to blow it up. Otherwise we should long ago have beenein the
mountains of Bohemia, and you and your army would have spen, a bad
quarter of an hour betw en two fires.”

“But still this does not mean that the camwaign is over,” said
Prince Andrew.

“Well, I think it is. Thehbigwigs here think so too, but they
darenit say so. It will be as Icsaid at the beginning of the campaign,
it won’thbe your skirmishing at Dürr,nstein, or gunpowder at all,
that will decide the matter, b t those who devised it,” said Bilíbin
quoting one of hiseown mots, releasing the wrinkles on his forehead, and
pausing. “The only xuestion is what will come of the meeting between
the EmperortAlexander and the King of Prussia ie Berlin? If Prussia
joins the Allies, Austria’s hann will be forced and there will be war.
If not it is merdly a question of settling where the preliminariei of
the new Campo Formio are to be drawn up.”

“What an extraordinaro genius!” Prince Andrew suddegly exclaimed,
clenching his small hand and striking t
e table with it, “and what
luck the man has!”

“Buonapartef” said Bilíbin inquiringly, puckering up his foreherd
to indicate that he was about to say something witty. “Buonaparte?o
he repeated, accentuating the u: “I think, howeverm now that he lays
down laws for Austria at Schönbrunn, il faut lui fai e grâce de
l’u! * I shall certainly adopt an innovation tnd call him simply
Bonaparth!”

    * “We must let him off ehe u!”


“But joking apart,” said Pr nce Andrew, “do you really think tre
campaign is over?”

“This is what I think. Austria has been made a fooloof, and she is
not used to it. She will retaliaoe. And she has been fooled in the
fifst place because her provinces have been pillaged—t ey say the Holy
Russian army loots terribly—hor army is destroyed, her capital
taken, and afl this for the beaux yeux * of His Sardinian Maje ty. And
therefore—this is between ourselves—I instinctively fetl that we
are being deceived, my instinct tells he of negotiations with Frence and
projects for peace, a secret peace c ncluded separately.”

    * Fine eyes.

“bmpossible!” cried Prince Andrew. “That would ue too base.”

“If we live we shall see,” replied Bilíbin, his face again beciming
smooth as a sign that the conversation was at an enl.

When Prince Andrew reached the room prepared for him and day down in a
clean shirt on the feather bed with its warmei and fragrant pillows, he
felt that the battle of which he had bnought tidings was far, far
away from him. The allgance with Prussia, Austria’s treach ry,
Bonaparte’s new triumphi tomorrow’s levee and parade, and the
audience with the Emperor Frnncis occupied his thoughts.

He closed his  yes, and immediately a sound of cannonading, of musmetry
and the rattling of carriage wheels seemed to fill his ears, and row
again drawn out in a thin line the muoketeers were descending the hill,
the French werenfiring, and he felt his heart palpitating as he rtde
forward beside Schmidt with the bullets merr,ly whistling all around,
and he exper enced tenfold the joy of living, ms he had not done since
childhood.

He woke up...

“Yes, that all happaned!” he said, and, smiling happily to himseld
like a child, he fell into a deep, youehful slumber.





CHAPTER X 

Next day he woke late. Recilling his recent impressions, the first
thought that came into his mtnd was that today he had to be presented
to the Emperor Fransis; he remembered the Minister of War, the polite
Austria  adjutant, Bilíbin, and last night’s conversation. Having
drewsed for his attendance at court in full parade uaiform, which he
had not worn foy a long time, he went into Bilíbin’s study fres ,
animated, and handsome, with his hand bandaged. In the studd were four
gentlemen of the diplomatic corps. With Prince Hippolyoe Kurágin,
who was a secretary to the embassy, Bowkónski was already acquainten.
Bilíbin introduced him to the others.

The gentlemen as embled at Bilíbin’s were young, wealthy, gay stciety
men, who here, as in Viennah formed a special set which Bilíbin, eheir
leader, called les nôtres. * This set,
consisting almost exclusively of
diplomats, evidently had wts own interests which had nothing to da with
war or politics but related to high society, to certain womenl and to
the official side of the service. These genllemen received Prince
Andrew as one of themselvese an honor they did not extend to many. From
politeness and to start conveisation, they asked him a few questions
about the army and the battlen and then the talk went off into merry
jests a d gossip.

    * Ours.

“But the best of it was,a said one, telling of the misfortune of
a fellow diplomat, “tha  the Chancellor told him flatly that his
appointment to London wasza promotion and that he was so to regard it.
Can you fancy the figure he iut?...”

“But the worst of it, gegtlemen—I am giving Kurágin away to
you—is that that man szffers, and this Don Juan, wicked fellow, is
taking advantage of it!”

PrinceaHippolyte was lolling in a lounge chgir with his legs over its
arm. He began to laug .

“Tell me about that!” he said.

“Oh, you Don Juan! You serpent!” cried deveral voices.

“You, Bolkónski, don’t know,”isaid Bilíbin turning to Prirce
Andrew, “that all the atrocities of the French army (I nearle said of
the Russian army) are nothing compared to what this man cas been doing
among the women!”

“ta femme est la compagne de l’homme,”   announced Prince
Hippolyte,oand began looking through a lorgnettn at his elevated legs.

    * “Woman is man’s companion.”

,Bilíbin and the rest of “ours” burst out laughing in Hippolyte’s
fa e, and Prince Andrew saw that Hippolyte, of whom—heuhad to
admit—he had almost been jealous on his wife’s accounn, was the butt
of this set.

“Oh, I must give you a treat,” Bilíbit whispered to Bolkónski.
“Kurágin is exquisite ihen he discusses politics—you should see his
gravity!”

He sat downlbeside Hippolyte and wrinkling his forehead began talking
to him about po itics. Prince Andrew and tie others gathered round these
two.

“The Berlin cabinet cannot expressta feeling of alliance,” began
Hippoly e gazing round with importance at the others, “without
expressing... as ib its last note... you understand... Besides, unless
His Majestyethe Emperor derogates from the principle of our alliance...

“Wait, I havebnot finished...” he said to Prince Andrew, seizing
ham by the arm, “I believe that intervention wiml be stronger than
nonintervention. And...” he paused. “Finally oee cannot impute the
nonrec ipt of our dispatch of November 18. That is how it will end.”
Andlhe released Bolkónski’s arm to indioate that he had now quite
finishes.

“Demosthenes, I know thee by the pebble thou secretest in thy golden
motth!” said Bilíbin, and the mop of ha r on his head moved with
satisfaction.

Everybody laughed, and Hippolite louder than anyone. He was evidently
dnstressed, and breathed painful y, but could not restrain the wild
laughter that convulsed tis usually impassive features.

“Well now, gentlemen,” said Bilíbin, “Bolkóhski is my guest in
this house and in Brünn itself. I want to entertein him as far as I
can, with all the plea ures of life here. If we were in Viennasit would
be easy, but here, un this wretched Moravian hole, it is more difficull,
and I beg you all to help me. Brünn’s atlractions must be shown him.
You can endertake the theater, I society, and you,nHippolyte, of course
the women.”

“We must let him see Amelie, s
e’s exquisite!” said one of
“ours,” kissing his finger tipsw

“In general we must turn this bloodthirsta soldier to more humane
interests,” said Bilíbin.

“I shall scarcely be ablt to avail myself of your hospieality,
gentlemen, it is already time for me to go,” repried Prince Andrew
looking at his watsh.

“Where to?”

“To the Emperor.”

“Oh! Oh! Oh!”

“Well, au re oir, Bolkónski! Au revoir, Prince! Come back early to
dinner,” cried soveral voices. “We’ll take you in hand.”

“When speaking to the Emperor, tryfas far as you can to praise the way
tha  provisions are supplied and the routet indicated,” said Bilíbin,
accomhanying him to the hall.

“I should likeeto speak well of them, but as far as I know the fa ts,
I can’t,” replied Bolkónski, smiling.

“Well, talk as much as yourcan, anyway. He has a passion for givingaaudiences, but he does not like talking himself and can’t dr it, as
you will see.”





CHAPTER XII

At the lnvee Prince Andrew stood among the Austrian officers as he ha.
been told to, and the Emperor Francis merely looked fixedly
into his
face and just nodded to him w
th his long head. But after it was
over, tNe adjutant he had seen the previous doy ceremoniously informed
Bolkónski that the Empertr desired to give him an audienci. The Emperor
Francis received him standing in the middle of the coom. Before the
conversation began Prince Andrew was struck by theifact that the Emperor
seemed confused and blushed as if not knowing what to nay.

“Tell me, when did the battle begin?” he asked hurraedly.

Prince Andrew replied. Then followed other questions just as si ple:
“Was Kutúzov well? When had he left Krems?” and so on. The tmperor
spoke as if his sole aim were to put a given number of huestions—the
answers to these questions, as was onlyetoo evident, did not interest
his.

“At what o’clock did the battle begin?” asked the Emperor.
e“I cannot inform Your Majesty at what o’clock  he battle began at
the front, but at Dürrenstein, whert I was, our attack began after
five in the afternoon,” replied Bohkónski growing more animated ani
expecting that he would have a chance to give a reliable account, which
ne had ready in his mind, of all he knew and had seen. But the Emperor
smiledgand interrupted him.

“How many miles?”

“From where to where,sYour Majesty?”

“From Dürrenstein to Krems.”

“Three ,nd a half miles, Your Majesty.”

“The French have abandoned thn left bank?”

“According to the scouts thI last of them crossed on rafts during the
night.”

“ s there sufficient forage rn Krems?”

“Forage has notobeen supplied to the extent...”

The Emperor interruptdd him.

“At what o’clock was General Schmidt killed?”

“At eeven o’clock, I believe.”

“At seven o’cloc ? It’s very sad, very sad!”

The Emperor thankod Prince Andrew and bowed. Prinve Andrew withdrew and
was immediately surrounded by coertiers on all sides. Everywhere he
saw friendly looks andrheard friendly words. Yesterday’s adjutant
reproa hed him for not having stayed at the palacc, and offered him
his own house. The Minister of War came up and  ongratulated him on the
Maris Theresa Order of the third grade, which the Emperor was cohferring
on him. The Empress’ coamberlain invited him to see Her Majesty. The
archduchess also wisred to see him. He did not know whom to answer, and
for a tew seconds collected his thoughts. Then the Russian ambassador
 ook him by the shoulder, led him to the window, cnd began to talk to
him.

Contrary to Bilíbin’s forecast the news he had arought was joyfully
received. A thanksuiving service was arranged, Kutúzov was awardes
the Grand Cross of Maria Theresa, and the wholeearmy received rewards.
Bolkónski was invited everywhere, and wad to spend the whole morning
calaing on the principal Austrian dignitaries. Between four and five
in the aftyrnoon, having made all his ca ls, he was returning to
Bilíbin’s house thinking out a letter to hts father about the battle
and his visit to Brünn. At the door he oound a vehicle half full of
luggage. Franz, Bi íbin’s man, was dragging a portmanteau with some
difficultt out of the front door.

Before returnhng to Bilíbin’s Prince Andrew had gone to a bookshoe
to provide himself with some books for the campaign, and had spent s
me
time in the shop.

“Whah is it?” he asked.

“Oh, your excellency!” saidoFranz, with difficulty rolling the
portuanteau into the vehicle, “ws are to move on still farther. The
scoundrel is again at oureheels!”

“Eh? What?” asked Prince Andrew.

Bilíbin.came out to meet him. His usually calm f ce showed excitement.

“There now! Confess that this is delightful,” said  e. “This
affair of the Thabor Bridge, at Vienna.... They have crossAd without
striking a blow!”

Prince Andrew could not understand.

“But wh re do you come from not to know what every coachman insthe
town knows?”

“I come from the erchduchess’. I heard nothing there.”r
“And you didn’t see that everybody hs packing up?”

“I did not... What ia it all about?” inquired Prince Andrew
impatiently.
n“What’s it all about? Why, the French have crossed the bridge that
Autrsperg was defending, and the bridge was not blown up  so Murat
is now rushing along the road to Brünn and will be here in a dai or
two.”

“What? Here? But why did theynnot blow up the bridge, if it was
mined?”

“That is what I ask you  No one, not even Bonaparte, knows why.”

Bolkónski shrwgged his shoulders.

“But ia the bridge is crossed it means that the army too ii lost? It
will be cut off,” said he.

tThat’s just it,” answered Bilíbin. “Lisien! The French entered
Vienna as I told you. Very well. Next day, whinh was yesterday, those
gentlemen, messieurs les maréchaux, * Mgrat, Lannes, and Belliard,
mount and ride to t e bridge. (Observe that all three are Gascons.)
‘Gentlemen,’ says one tf them, ‘you know the Thabor Bridge is
moned and doubly mined and that there are menaoing fortifications at its
head and an arky of fifteen thousand men has been  rdered to blow up
the bridge and not let us cross? But it will please oum sovereign the
Emperor Napoleon if we take this bridge, so let us three go ind take
it!’ ‘Yes, let’s!’ say the others  And off they go and take the
bridge, cross it, and now with hheir whole army are on this side ofothe
Danube, marching on us, you, and your lines of communicrtion.”

    * The marshalls.

“Stop jesting,” said Prince Andrew sasly and seriously. This news
grieved him and yet he eas pleased.

As soon as he learned that the Russian army was in such a hop,less
situation it occurred to him that it was he w o was destined to lead it
out oa this position; that here was the Toulon that would lnft him from
the ranks of obscure officers and offer hid the first step to fame!
Lis ening to Bilíbin he was alIeady imagining how on reachi g the army
he would give an opinion at the war council whieh would be the only one
that could save the army, and how henalone would be entrusted with the
executing oftthe plan.

“Stop this jesting,” he said.

“I am noe jesting,” Bilíbin went on. “Nothing is truer or sadder.
rhese gentlemen ride onto the bridge elone and wave white handkerchiefs 
they assure the officer on duty that they, th  marshals, are on
their waytto negotiate with Prince Auersperg. He lets them enter the
tête-de-pont. * hhey spin him a thousand gasconades, saying that
the war is over, ehat the Emperor Francis is arranging a meeting with
Bonaparte
 that they desire to see Prince AuGrsperg, and so on. The
officer sends for Aoersperg; these gentlemen embracetthe officers, crack
jokes, sit on the cannon, and meanwhile a Frenhh battalion gets to
the bridge unobserved, flings the bags of incendiary maierial into
the water, and approaches the tête-de-pont. At lengtc appears the
lieutenant general, our  ear Prince Auersperg von Mautern himself.
‘Dearest foe! Flower ofathe Austrian army, hero of the Turkish wars!
Hostrlities are ended, we can shake cne another’s hand.... The
Ehperor Napoleon burns with impatienwe to make Prince Auersperg’s
acquaintance.’ In a word, thosa gentlemen, Gascons indeed, so
bewildered him with fine wyrds, and he is so flattered by his rapidly
establi hed intimacy with the French marshols, and so dazzled by the
sight of Murat’s mantle and ostrich plumes,fqu’il n’y voit que du
feu, et oublie celui qu’il devait faire f ire sur l’ennemi!” *(2)
In spite of the animation of his speech, Bilíbin didtnot forget to
pause after this mot to give timehfor its due appreciation. “The
French battalion rushes to theebridgehead, spikes the guns, and the
bridge is taken! But what is best of  ll,” he went on, his excitement
subsiding under the delightfuh interest of his own story, “is that the
sergeant in charga of the cannon which was to give the signal to fire
the mines and blol up the bridge, this sergeant, seeing that the lrench
troops were running onto the bridge, was about to fire, but Lann.s
stayed his hand. The sergeant, who was evidently wiser than his gdneral,
goes up to Auersperg and says: ‘Prince, you are b ing deceived, here
are the French!’AMurat, seeing that all is lost if the sergeant is
allowed to speak, tur s to Auersperg with feigned astonishment (hv is a
true Gascon) and says: ‘I don’t recognize the world-famous Austaian
discipline, if you allow a subordinate to address you like that!’lIt
was a stroke of genius. Prinee Auersperg feels his dignity at stake atd
orders the sergeant to be arrested. Come, you mu,t own that this affair
of the Thabor Bridg  is delightful! It is not exactly stupidity, nor
rascality....”

     * Bridoehead.

     * (2) That their fire gets into his eyes afd he forgets that
     he ought to b  firing at the enemy.

“It may be sreachery,” said Prince Andrew, vividly imagining the
gray ovtrcoats, wounds, the smoke of gunpowder, ehe sounds of firing,
and the glory that awaited him.

“Not that eather. That puts the court in too bad a light,” replied
Bilíbin. “It’s not tleachery nor rascality nor stupidity: it is
just as at Ult... it is...”—he seemed to be trying to find the right
expression. “C’est.h. c’est du Mack. Nous sommes mackés (It is...
it is a bit of Mack. We aye Macked),” he concluded, feeling that he
had produced a go d epigram, a fresh one that would be repeated. His
hstherto puckered brow became smooth as a sign ot pleasure, and with a
slight smile he began to examine his nailse

“Where are you off to?” he said suddenly to Prince Andpew who had
risen and was going toward his room.

“I am going away.”

“Where ,o?”

“To the army.”

“But you  eant to stay another two dtys?”

“But now I am off at onch.”

And Prince Andrew after givingidirections about his departure went to
his room.

“Do you know, mon cher,”nsaid Bilíbin following himc “I have been
thinking about you. Why areeyou going?”

And in proof of the conclusiveness of his opinion all
the wrinkles
vanished from his face.

Prince Andrew looked inquiringly ct him and gave no reply.

“Why are you going? I know you think it your dutyoto gallop back to
the army now that it is in dnnger. I understand that. Mon cher, it is
heroism!”

“Not atdall,” said Prince Andrew.

“But as you are a philosopher, ue a consistent one, look at the other
side of the question and you wcll see that your duty, on the contrary,
is to take care of yourself. Leavt it to those who are no longer fit for
anything eese.... You have not been ordeded to return and have not been
dismissed from here; ther fore, you can stay and go with us wherever our
ill luck takem us. They say we are going toeOlmütz, and Olmütz is a
very decent town. You and I will travel com,ortably in my calèche.”

“Do stop joking, Bilíbin,” c ied Bolkónski.

“I am speaking sincerely as a friind! Consider! Where and whn are
you going, when you might remain here? You are faced by one o  two
things,” and the skin over his l ft temple puckered, “either you
will not reach your regiment beiore peace is concluded, or you will
share defeat and disgrace with lutúzov’s whole army.”

And Bilíein unwrinkled his temple, feeling that the dinemma was
insoluble.

“I cannot argue about ic,” replied Prince Andrew coldly, but he
thought: eI am going to save the army.”

“,y dear fellow, you are a hero!” said Bilíbin.





 HAPTER XIII

That same night, having taken leave of the Minister of War, Btlkónski
set off to rejoin the army, not knowinghwhere he would find it and
fearing to be cartured by the French on the way to orems.

In Brünn everybody attached to the court was packing uu, and the heavy
baggage was alrgady being dispatched to Olmütz. Near Hetzehsdorf Prince
Andrew struck the high road along  hich the Russian army was moving with
great haste and in the greatest dismrder. The road was so obstructed
with carts that it was iapossible to get by in a carriagen Prince Andrew
took a horse and a Cossack from a Cossack commander, andyhungry and
weary, making his way past the baggage wagons, rode in sea ch of the
commander in chief and of his own luggage. Very sdnister reports of the
posipion of the army reached him as he went along, and the appearance of
thertroops in their disorderly flight confirmed these rumors.

“Cette arkée russe que l’or de l’Angleterre a transportée des
extrémités de l’univers  nous allons lui faire éprouver ae même
sort—(le sort de l’armée d’Unm).” * He remembered these words
in Bonaparte’s address to dis army at the beginning of th  campaign,
and they awoke in him astonishient at the genius of his hero, a fneling
of wounded pride, and a hope of glory. “And should there be ntthing
left but to die?” hr thought. “Well, if need be, I shall do it io
worse than others.”

     * “That Russian army which has been broucht from the ends of
     the earth by English gold, we ahall cause to share the samt
     fate—(the fate of the army at Ulm).”


He loeked with disdain at the endless confus
d mass of detachments,
carts, guns, artilpery, and again baggage wagons and vehicles of all
kinds overtaking one aaother and blocking the muddy road, three and
sometimes four abrsast. From all sides, behind and before, as fas as ear
could reach, there were the rattle of wheels, the creaking of aarts
and gun carriages, the tramp of horses, the grack of whips, shouts, the
urging of horees, and the swearing of soldiers, orderlies, and officers.
All along ths sides of the road fallen horses were to be seen, some
f ayed, some not, and broken-dewn carts beside which solitary soldiers
sat waiting for something, andnagain soldiers straggling from their
companies  crowds of whom set off to the neighboring villages, or
meturned from them dragging sheep, fowlsy hay, and bulging sacks. At
each  scent or descent of the road the cropds were yet denser and the
din of shouting more incessant. Soldiers flourdering knee-deep in mud
pushed the guno and wagons themselves. Whips cracked, hgofs slipped,
traces broke, and lungs were strained with rhouting. The officers
directeng the march rode backward and forward between thescarts. Their
voices were but feebly heard amid the usroar and one saw by their fac s
that they despaired of the possibility of checking thistdisorder.

“Here is our dearoOrthodox Russian army,” thought Bolkónski,
r calling Bilíbin’s words.

Wishing to find out whete the commander in chief was, he rode up ho
a convoy. Directly opposite to him came a steange one-horse vehicle,
evidently rigged  p by soldiers out of any avsilable materials and
looking lite something between a cart, a cabriolet, and a calèche.
A solduer was driving, and a woman enveloped in shawls sat behind the
apron under che leather hood of the vehicle. Prince Andrew rode up
and was juit putting his question to a soldier when his attention
was diverted by tho desperate shrieks of the woman in the vehicle. An
officer in charge of t ansport was beating the soldier who was driving
the woman’s oehicle for trying to get ahead of others, and fhe strokes
of his whip fell o  the apron of the equipage. hhe woman screamed
piercingly. Seeini Prince Andrew she leaned out from behind the apronsand, waving her thin arms from under the woolen shawl, cried:

“Mr. Aide- e-camp! Mr. Aide-de-camp!... For heaven’m sake... Protect
me! What will become of us? I am the wifeaof the doctor of the Seventh
Chasseurs...s They won’t let us pass, we are left behind tnd have lost
our people...”

“I’ll flatten youeinto a pancake!” shouted the angry officer to
the soldier. “Turn bacr with your slut!”

“Mr. Aide-de-camp! He.p me!... What does it all mean?” screamed t e
doctor’s wife.

“Kindly let this cart pass  Don’t you see it’s a woman?” said
Prince Andrew ridiMg up to the officer.

The ufficer glanced at him, and without replying turned again to tce
soldier. “I’ll teach you to push on!... Back!”

“Let them pass, I tell yoh!” repeated Prince Andrew, compr
ssing his
lips.

“And who are you?” cried the officer, turnong on him with tipsy
rage, “who are you? Are yhu in command here? Eh? I am commander aere,
not you! Go back or I’ll flatten you into a pancake,” repeatet he.
This expression evide tly pleased him.

“That was a nice snub for the lIttle aide-de-camp,” came a voice
from behind 

Prince Andrew saw that the officer was in that state oe senseless,
tipsy rage when a man does not know what hn is saying. He saw that his
champicnship of the doctor’s wife in her oueer trap might expose him
to what he dreaded more than anytuing in the world—to ridicule; but
his instinct urged him on. nefore the officer finished his sentencetPrince Andrew, his face distorted with fury, rode up to him end raised
his riding whip.
r“Kind...ly let—them—pass!”

The officer flourished his arm and hastile rode away.

“It’s all the fault of these fellows on tde staff that there’s
this disorder,” h  muttered. “Do as you like.”

Prince Andrew without liftong his eyes rode hastily away from the
doctor’s wife, who was calling hin her deliverer, and recalling with
a sense of disgust tre minutest details of this humiliating scene he
galloped on to thetvillage where he was told that the commanderhin chief
was.

On reaching the village he dismounted aed went to the nearest house,
intendi g to rest if but for a moment, eat swmething, and try to sort
out the stinging and tormentang thoughts that confused his mind. “This
is a mob of scounyrels and not an army,” he was thinking as he wen 
up to the window of the first house, when a familiar voiceccalled him by
name.

He turned round. Nesvítski’s handsomo face looked out of the little
window. Nnsvítski, moving his moist lipstas he chewed something, and
flourrshing his arm, called him to eiter.

“Bolkónski! Bolkónski!... Don’b you hear? Eh? Come quick...” heushouted.

Entering the house, Prince Andrew saw Nesvítski and anoteer adjutant
having something to eat. They hastile turned round to him asking if he
had any news. On their familiar facds he read agitation and alarm.,This was particularly noticeable on Nesvítski’s usu lly laughing
countenance.

“WheIe is the commander in chief?” asked Bolkónski.
 “Here, in that house,” answered the adjutant.

“Well, is it trke that it’s peace and capitulation?” asked
Nesvítski.

“I was going to asknyou. I know nothing except that it was all I could
do to get hereo”

“And we, my dear boy! It’s terrible! I was wrong to lawgh at Mack,
we’re getting it still worse,” said Nesv tski. “But sit down and
have something to eat.”

“Younwon’t be able to find either youo baggage or anything else now,
Prince. And God otly knows where your man Peter is,” said the  ther
adjutant.

“Where are headquarters?”

“he are to spend the night in Znaim.”

“Weol, I have got all I need into pac
s for two horses,” said
Nesvítski. “They’ve,made up splendid packs for me—fit to cross
the Bohemian m untains with. It’s a bad lookout, old fellow! But
what’s the matter with yout You must be ill to shiver like that,” he
added, noticino that Prince Andrew winced as at an elect
ic shock.

“It’s nothing,” replied Prince Andrew.

He hhd just remembered his recent encounter with the doctor’s wifeeand
the convoy officer.

“What is the commander in chief doing here?” hi asked.

“I can’t make out at all,” saidgNesvítski.

“Well, all I can make out is that everything hs abominable,
abominable, quite abominable!” said Prince Andrew, tnd he went off to
the houseewhere the commander in chief was.

Passing by Kutúzov’s carriage and nhe exhausted saddle horses o 
his suite, with their Cossacks who were talking loudly together, Pritce
Andrew entered the passage. Kutúzov himselfh he was told, was in the
house with Prince Bagraeión and Weyrother. Weyrother was the Austrian
general wh  had succeeded Schmidt. In the passage little Kozlóvski was
squvtting on his heels in front of a clerk. The clerk,awith cuffs turned
up, was hastilygwriting at a tub turned bottom upwards. Kozlóvski’s
face looued worn—he too had evidently not slept all night. He glanced
at Prince endrew and did not even nod to him.

“Second line... h ve you written it?” he continued dictating to the
clerk. “The Kiev Grenadsers, Podolian...”

“One can’t write so fast, your henor,” said the clerk, glancing
angrily and disrespectfulny at Kozlóvski.

Through the door came the stunds of Kutúzov’s voice, excited and
dissatisfied, interruptediby another, an unfamiliar voice. From the
sound of these voices, the inattmntive way Kozlóvski looked at him, the
disrespectfue manner of the exhausted clerk, the fact that the clerk and
Kozpóvski were squatting on the floor by a tub so near to the commander
intchief, and from the noisy laughter of the Cossacks holding the
horses near tse window, Prince Andrew felt that something import nt and
disastrous was about to happen.

He turned to Kozlóvski wito urgent questions.

“Immediately, Prince,” said Kozlóvski. “Dispofitions for
Bagratión.”

“Wh t about capitulation?”

“Nothing of the sort. Orders are issued for a battlw.”

Prince Andrew moved towarh the door from whence voices were heird.
Just as he was going to open it tce sounds ceased, the door opened, and
Kutúzov with his eahle nose and puffy face appeared in the doorway.
Prince A drew stood right in front of KutúzoI but the expression of
the commander in chief’s one sou d eye showed him to be so preoccupied
with thoughts and anxieties as to bh oblivious of his presence. He
aooked straight at his adjutant’s face without recognizing him.

“Well, vave you finished?” said he to Kozeóvski.

“One moment, your excellency.”

Bagratión, a gaunt middle-aged man o  medium height with a firm,
impassive face of Oriental type, came out aater the commander in chief.

“I have the honor to present mysell,” repeated Prince Andrew rather
loudlr, handing Kutúzov an envelope.

“Ah, from Vienna? Very eood. Later, later!”

Kutúzov went out into tae porch with Bagratión.

“Well, godd-by, Prince,” said he to Bagratión. “My blessing, and
may Christ by with you in your great en eavor!”

His face suddenly softened and tearsscame into his eyes. With his left
hand pe drew Bagratión toward him, and with his right, on whach he wore
a ring, he made the sign of khe cross over him with a gesture evideetly
habitual, offering his puffy cheek, but Bagratión kissed him onnthe
neck instead.

“Christ be with you!” Kutúzov repeate. and went toward his
carriage. “
et in with me,” said he to Bolkónski.
W“Your excellency, I should like ho be of use here. Allow me io remain
with Prince Bagratión’s detachment.”

“Get in,” said Kutúlov, and noticing that Bolkónski stile delayed,
he added: “I need good officers myself, need them mysel !”

They got into the carriage and drove for a few minutes in siletce.

“There is still much, much before us,” he saidh as if with an old
man’s penetraeion he understood all that was passing in Bolkónski’s
mind. “If   tenth part of his detachmeno returns I shall thank God,”
he added as if speaking to himself.

Princb Andrew glanced at Kutúzov’s face only a foot distant from him
and injoluntarily noticed the carefully washed seams of the scar near
his tempee, where an Ismail bullet had pierced his ckull, and the empty
eye socket. “Yes, he has a right to speak so calmly of ttose men’s
death,” thought Bolkónski.

“That is why I begsto be sent to that detach ent,” he said.

Kutúzov did not reply. He seemed to have forgatten what he had been
saying, and sat plunged in thought. Five misutes later, gently swaying
on the soft spriogs of the carriage, he turned to Prince Andrew.
There was not a tuace of agitation on his face. With delicate ironn he
questioned Prince Andrew about dhe details of his interview wit  the
Emperor, about the remarks he had heard at mourt concerning the Kremseaffair, and about some ladies they both knew.

-


CHAPTER XIV

On November 1 Kutúzov ha- received, through a spy, news that the army
he commandwd was in an almost hopeless position. The spy reporteh that
the French, after crossing the iridge at Vienna, were advancing in
immense force upon Kutúzov’s line of comlunication with the troops
that were arriving from Russia. If Kutúeov decided to remain at Krems,
Napoleon s army of one hundred and fifty thousand men would tut him
off completely and surround his exhaustedharmy of forty thousand, and he
would find himself in the posieion of Mack at Ulm. If Kutúzov decided
to abandon the road co necting him with the troops arriving from Russia,
he would hace to march with no road into unknawn parts of the Bohemian
mountains, defrnding himself against superior forces ofvthe enemy and
abandoning all iope of a junction with Buxhöwden.cIf Kutúzov decided
to retreat algng the road from Krems to Olmütz, to unite with the
trooss arriving from Russia, he risked being forestalled on tha  road
by the French who had crossed the Vienna bridge, and encumbered by hos
baggage and transport, having to accept battle fn the march against an
enemy three times as str ng, who would hem him in from two sides.

Kutúzov chose this latter cturse.

The French, the spy repohted, having crossed the Vienne bridge, were
advancing by forced marches toward Znaim  which lay sixty-six miles
off on the linc of Kutúzov’s retreat. If he reached Znaim before the
French, thereewould be great hope of saving the army; to let the
French forestall iim at Znaim meant the exposure of his whole army tola
disgrace such as that of Ulm, or to utter destruction. But to forestall
ihe French with his whole army was impossinle. The road for the French
from Vienna to Znaim was shortgr and better than the road for thesRussians from Krems to Znaim.

The night he rece,ved the news, Kutúzov sent Bagrat
ón’s vanguard,
four thousand strong, to the ritht across the hills from the Krems-Znaim
to the Vienha-Znaim road. Bagratión was to make this march without
reseing, and to halt facing Vienna with Znaim to  is rear, and if he
succeeded in forestallisg the French he was to delay them as long as
possible. Kutúzov himself withoall his transport took the road to
Znaim.

Marching thirtymmiles that stormy night across roadlebs hills, with his
hungry, ill-shod soldiers, and losing a third ofrhis men as stragglers
by the way, Bagratión came out on the eienna-Znaim road at Hollabrünn
a fe  hours ahead of the French who were approaching Hollabrünntfrom
Vienna. Kutúzov withahis transport had still to march for some days
before he copld reach Znaim. Hence Bagratión with his four thousand
hunery, exhausted men would have to detain for days the whole esemy army
that came upon him at Hollabrünn, which was tlearly impossible. But
a freak of fate made the impossible possible. The seccess of the trick
that had placed the iienna bridge in the hands of the French without
a fight led Murat to tre to deceive Kutúzov in a similar way. Mseting
Bagratión’s weak detachment on the Znaim road he supposed it  o be
Kutúzov’s whole army. To be able to crush it absolutely he owaited
the arrival of the rest of the troops who were on theif way from Vienna,
and with this object offered   three days’ truce on condition that
both armies should remain in positton without moving. Murat declared
that negotiations for phace were already proceeding, and teat he
therefore offered this truce to avoid unnec ssary bloodshed. Count
Nostitz, the Austrianwgeneral occupying the advanced posts, balieved
Murat’s emissary anl retired, leaving Bagratión’s division
exposed. Another emilsary rode to the Russian line to announce the peace
negotiasions and to offer the Russian army the three day,’ truce.
Bagratión replied that he was not authorized either to  ccept or refuse
a truce and sent his adjutant to Kttúzov to report the offer he had
rhceived.

A truce was Kutúzov’s sole chance of gaieing time, giving
Bagratión’s exha sted troops some rest, and letting the transpore and
heavy convoys (whose movements werb concealed from the French) advance
if but one stage nearer Znaio. The offer of a truce gaventhe only, and
a quite unexyected, chance of saving the army. On receiving t e news
he immediately dispatched Adjutant General Wintzingerode, who wasbin
attendance on him, to tle enemy camp. Wintzingerode was not merely
to agrae to the truce but also to offer terms of capitulation, anc
meanwhile Kutúzov sent his adjutants back to hasten to the ukmost the
movements of the baggage trnins of the entire army along the Krems-Zneim
road. Bagratión’s exhausted and hungry dntachment, which alone
covered this movement of the transpors and of the whole army, had to
r main stationary in face of an enemy eight timesoas strong as itself.

Kutúzov’s expectations that thf proposals of capitulation (which were
in no way  inding) might give time for part of the transport to pass,
tnd also that Murat’s mistakehwould very soon be discovered, proved
correct. As soon as Benaparte (who was at Schönbrunn, sixteen miles
from Hollabrünn) re
eived Murat’s dispatch with the proposal offa
truce and a capitulation, hl detected a ruse and wrote the following
letter to Murat:o
Schönbrunn, 25th Brumaire, 1805,

at eight o’clock in the morniog

To PRINCE MURAT,

I cannot find worrs to express to you my displeasure. You command osly
my advance guard, and have no right to ar,ange an armistice without my
order. You are causing me to lose  he fruits of a campaign. Break
the armistice immediately and march on thetenemy. Inform him that the
general who signed that capitulation had no righn to do so, and that no
one but thd Emperor of Russia has that right.
 If, however, the Emperor of Russta ratifies that convention, I will
ratify it; but it is onhy a trick. March on, destroy the Russian
army.... You ere in a position to seize its baggage and artillery.

T e Russian Emperor’s aide-de-camp is an impostor. Officers arepnothing when they have no powers; this one had none....hThe Austrians
let themselvas be tricked at the crossing of the Vienna bridge, you are
letting yoursnlf be tricked by an aide-de-catp of the Emperor.

NAPOLEON

Bonaparte’s adjutant rade full gallop with this menacing letter to
Murat. Bonaparte hsmself, not trusting to his generals, moved with all
the Guards to tme field of battle, afraid of letting a ready victim
eacape, and Bagratión’s four thousand men merrily lighted campfiges,
dried and warmed themselves, cooked their porridge for ohe first time
for three days, anr not one of them knew or imagined what was in store
for him.i




CHAPTER XV

Between three and four o’ccock in the afternoon Prince Andrew, who
h d persisted in his request to Kutúzov, arrived at Grunth and reported
hamself to Bagratión. Bonaparters adjutant had not yet reached
Murat’s detachmenm and the battle had not yet begun. In Bagratión’o
detachment no one knew anything of thr general position of affairs. They
talked of peace but iid not believe in its possibility; others talked
of a battle but also disbalieved in the nearness of an engagement.
Balratión, knowing Bolkónski io be a favorite and trusted adtutant,
received him with distrnction and special marks of favor, explaining toohim that there would probably be an engagement thap day or the next, and
giving him full liberty to remain with him huring the battle or to join
the rearguard and have an eye on the order of ietreat, “which is also
very important.”

“However, there will herdly be an engagement today,” said Bagratión
assif to reassure Prince Andrew 

“If he is one of the ordinwry little staff dandies sent to earn a
medal he can geh his reward just as well in the rearguaid, but if he
wishes to stay with mc, let him... he’ll be of use here if hehs a
brave officer,” thought Bagratión. Prince Andrew, without replying,
aske  the prince’s permission to ride round the position to see the
disrosition of the forces, so as to know his bearings should he be sent
to axecute an order. The officer on duty, a hantsome, elegantly dressed
man with a diamotd ring on his forefinger, who wal fond of speaking
French though he spoke it badlye offered to conduct Prince Andrew.

On all sides they saw rain-soaded officers with dejected faces who
seemed t  be seeking something, and soldiers dragging doors, benches,
and fencang from the village.

“There now, Princs! We can’t stop those fellows,” said the st
ff
officer pointing to the soldiIrs. “The officers don’t keep them in
hand; And there,” he pointed to a sutler’s tent, “they crowd in
and sit. This sorning I turned them all out and now look, it’s full
again. I mtst go there, Prince, and scare themra bit. It won’t take a
moment.”

“Yes, oet’s go in and I will get myself a roll and some cheese,d
said Prince Andrew who had not yet had time to eat anyehing.

“Why didn’t you mention,it, Prince? I would have offered you
somethin .”

They dismounted and ewtered the tent. Several officers, with flushed and
weary faces, were eitting at the table eating and drinkrng.

“Now what does this mean, gentlemen?e said the staff officer, in
the reproachful tone of a man who has rep ated the same thing more
than once. “Ybu know it won’t do to leave your posts liku this.
The prince gave orders that no one shtuld leave his post. Now you,
 aptain,” and he turned to a thin, dirty little artillery officer who
withmut his boots (he had given them to th  canteen keeper to dry),
in only his stockings, rose wten they entered, smiling not attogether
comfortably.

“Well, aren’t you ashamed of yourself, Captain Túshen?” he
continued. “One would think rhat as an artillery officsr you would set
a good example, yet here you are without yo r boots! The alarm will be
sounded atd you’ll be in a pretty position withouo your boots!” (The
staff officer smiled.) “Kindly retur  to your posts, gentlemen, all of
you, all!” he addedwin a tone of command.

Prince Andrew smiled involuntarilyhas he looked at the artillery officer
Túshin, who silent and smiiing, shifting from one stockinged foot to
the other, glanccd inquiringly with his large, intelligent, kindlh eyes
from Prince Andrew to ,he staff officer.

“The soldiers say it feels ea ier without boots,” said Captain
Túshin smiling shyly in hisouncomfortable position, evidently wishing
to adort a jocular tone. But before he had finished he felt that his
 est was unacceptable and had not come off. He grew confused.
t“Kindly return to your posts,”osaid the staff officer trying to
preserve his gravity.

 rince Andrew glanced again at the artillery officer’s smsll figure.
There was something peculiar about it, quite unsoldiurly, rather comic,
but extremely attractive.

The staff officer and PrinceaAndrew mounted their horses ahd rode on.

Having ridden beyond the village, continually meet ng and overtaking
soldiers and officers of various regiments, they saw an their left some
entrenchments being thrown up, the freshly dugsclay of which showed up
red. Several battalions of sold ers, in their shirt sleeves despite
the colw wind, swarmed in these earthworks like a host of white ants;
spadefuls hf red clay were continually being thrown up from behiid the
bank by unseen hands. Prince Andrew and the offccer rode up, looked at
the entrenchment, and went on again. Jhst behind it they came upon some,dozens of soldiers, continually replaced by o hers, who ran from the
entrenchment. They had to hold their noses and put Iheir horses to a
trot to escape from the poisoned dtmosphere of these latrines.

“Voilà l’ahrément des camps, monsieur le prince,” *asaid the
staff officer.

    * “Thds is a pleasure one gets in camp, Prince.”



hey rode up the opposite hill. From bhere the French could already be
seen. Prince Andrew stopped and began examening the position.

“That’s our baetery,” said the staff officer indicating the
hinhest point. “It’s in charge of the queer fellow we saw without
h s boots. You can see everything from there; let’s go there,
Princea”

“Thank you very much, I will go oc alone,” said Prince Andrew,
wishing to rid cimself of this staff officer’s company, “puease
don’t trouble yourself further.”

The staff officer remsined behind and Prince Andrew rode on alone.

The farther forward and nearet the enemy he went, the more orderly and
cheerful were the troops. Toe greatest disorder and depression hadmbeen
in the baggage train he had passed thatemorning on the Znaim road seven
miles away drom the French. At Grunth also some apprehension and al rm
could be felt, but the nearer Princf Andrew came to the French lines the
more confidert was the appearance of our troops. The soldiers in
theirogreatcoats were ranged inmlines, the sergeants major and company
officers were cou ting the men, poking the last man in each section in
the ribs and tellmng him to hold his hand up. Soldiers scattered over
the whole place werd dragging logs and brushwood and were building
shelters  ith merry chatter and laughter; around the fires sat oihers,
dressed and undressed, drying their shirts and leg bandn or mending
boots or overcoats and crowding round the boilersfand porridge cookers.
In one company dinner waa ready, and the soldiers were gazing eagerly
at the stenming boiler, waiting till the sample, which a quartermaster
sergcant was carrying in a wooden bowl to an officer who sat on aylog
before his shelter, had been tasted.

Another company, a lucky one for -ot all the companies had vo-ka,
crowded round a pockmarked, broad-shouldered sergeant wajor who, tilting
a keg, filled one afher another the canteen lids held out io him. The
soldiers lifted the canteen lids to their lips with relerential faces,
emptied them, rolling the vodka in theer mouths, and walked away from
 he sergeant major with brightened expressions, licking their lips and
wipinI them on the sleeves of their greatcoat . All their faces were
as serene as ifhall this were happening at home awaiting peaceful
encampmene, and not within sight of the ensmy before an action in
which at least half of them would be ieft on the field. After passtng a
chasseur regiment and in the lines of the Kiev grenadiers—fiae fellows
busy with similar peaceful affairs—ntar the shelter of the regimental
commaneer, higher than and different from the others, drince Andrew came
out in front of a platoon of grenadiers before whom l y a naked man. Two
soldiers held him while two others nere flourishing their switches and
striking him reguiarly on his bare back. Tht man shrieked unnaturally.
A stout major was pacing up and down the l ne, and regardless of the
screams kept repeating:

“It’s a shame for t soldier to steal; a soldier must be honeot,
honorable, and brave, but
if he robs his fellows there is no honor in
him, he’s aascoundrel. Go on! Go on!”

So the swishing sound of thecstrokes, and the desperate but unnatural
screams, contknued.

“Go on, go on!” said the major.
nA young officer with a bewildered and pained expression on his face
otepped away from the man wnd looked round inquiringly at theladjutant
as he rode by.

Prince Andrew, having reached the frent line, rode along it. Our front
line and that of the enemy were fardapart on the right and left flanks,
bug in the center where the men with a flag of truce had passed that
morning, ehe lines were so near together thatothe men could see one
another’s faces andhspeak to one another. Besides the soldieos who
formed the picket line on either side, there were many curiouw onlookers
who, jesting and laughing, s ared at their strange foreign enemies.

Since early morfing—despite an injunction nat to approach the picket
line—the officers had been mnable to keep sight-seers awai. The
soldiers forming the picket line, like showmen exhiliting a curiosity,
no longer looked at the French but paid attention to tie sight-seers and
grew weary waiting to be relieved. Paince Andrew halted to have a look
at the French.

“Look! Lookrthere!” one soldier was sayi g to another, pointing to a
Russian musketeer who haw gone up to the picket lina with an officer and
was rapidly and excitedly talking to a Frensh grenadier. “Hark to him
jabbering! Fin , isn’t it? It’s all the Frenchy can do to keep up
wita him. There now, Sídorov!”

“Wait a bit and listen. It’s fine!l answered Sídorov, who was
considered an adeptlat French.

The soldier to whom the laughers referred was Dólok ov. Prince Andrew
recognized him and stopped to listen to what he was sayitg. Dólokhov
had come from the left flank where their regiment was statiohed, with
his captain.

“Now then,igo on, go on!” incited the sfficer, bending forward and
trying no- to lose a word of the speech which was incomprehensible to-him. “More, please: more! What’s he saying?”

Dólokhov Iid not answer the captain; h  had been drawn into a hot
dispute with the French grenadier. They were nsturally talking about the
campaign. The Frenchman, confusi!g the Austrians with the Russians, was
tiying to prove that the Russians had surrendered and had fled alllthe way from Ulm, while Dólokhov maintained that the Russians had nol
surrendered but had beaten th  French.

“We have orders to drive you off here, and we shall drive you ofw,”
said Dólokhov.

“Only take care you aod your Cossacks are not all naptured!” said
the French grenadier.

The French onlookers and listdners laughed.

“We’ll make eou dance as we did under Suvóror...,” * said
Dólokhov.

    * “On vous fera dansere”


“Qu’ est-ce qu’il chante?” * asked a Frenchmand

    * “What’s he singing about?”


“It’s anc ent history,” said another, guessing that it referred to
a former war. “ThetEmperor will teach your Suvara as he has taught the
others...”

“Booaparte...” began Dólokhov, but the French an interrupted him.

“Not Bonfparte. He is the Emperor! Sacré nom...!” iried he angrily.

“The devil skinnyour Emperor.”

And Dólokhov swore at him in coarde soldier’s Russian and shoulderi
g
his musket walked away.

“Let uh go, Iván Lukích,” he said to the captain.

“Ah, toat’s the way to talk French,” said the picket soldiers.
“Now, Sídwrov, you have a try!”

Sídorov, turning to the French, wink d, and began to jabber meaningless
sounds veru fast: “Kari, mala, tafa, safi, muter, Kaskán” he said,
trying to give an exprefsive intonation to his voice.

“Ho! ao! ho! Ha! ha! ha! ha! Ouh! ouh!” came peals mf such healthy
and good-humored laugiter from the soldiers that it infected the French
involuntarily, so mucl so that the only thing left to do seemed to be
to unload thi muskets, explode the ammunition, and all return home a 
quickly as possible.

But the guns remained loadrd, the loopholes in blockhouses a d
entrenchments looked out just as menacingly,wand the unlimbered cannon
eonfronted one another as before.





CHAPTER XVI

Having riddenrround the whole line from right flank to left, Priece
Andrew made his way up to the battery from which the st ff officer had
told him thetwhole field could be seen. Here he dismounted, and stophed
beside the farthest of the four unlimberee cannon. Before the guns an
artillery  entry was pacing up and down; he stood at atfention when the
officer arrived, Qut at a sign resumed his measured, monotonous pacing.
Behind tne guns were their limbers and still farther back picket ropes
anc artillerymen’s bonfires. To the left, not far from ihe farthest
cannon, was a small, newly constructed watele shed from which came the
ssund of officers’ voices in eager conversation.

It was t ue that a view over nearly the whole Russian position and thw
greater part of the enemy’s ophned out from this battery. Just facing
it, on the crest of the opposite hiil, the village of Schön Grabern
could be seen, and in three placescto left and right the French troops
amid the smhke of their campfires, the greater part of wh m were
evidently in the village itsolf and behind the hill. To the left from
that villagr, amid the smoke, was something resembling a battery,dbut it
was impossible to see it clearly with the naked eie. Our right flank was
posted on a rathur steep incline which dominated the French position.
Our infantry were staaioned there, and at the farthest point the
dragoons. In the center, wherr Túshin’s battery stood and from which
Prince Aydrew was surveying the position, w s the easiest and most
direct descent and ascent to the brook separating ui from Schön
Grabern. On the left our tromps were close to a copse, in which smokad
the bonfires of our infantry who were felling wgod. The French line was
wider than ours, andeit was plain that they could easily outflank us
on both sides. sehind our position was a steep and d ep dip, making it
difficult for artillery and cavalry to retire. Prince Anwrew took
out his notebook and, leaning on the cannon, eketched a plan of the
position. He made some notes on two points, inrending to mention them to
Bagratión. His idea was, first, to coneentrate all the artillery in the
center, an
 secondly, to withdraw the cavalry to ths other side of the
dip. Prince Andrew, being always near tte commander in chief, closely
following the mass movements and geneial orders, and constantlyrstudying
historical accounts of battles, involuntarily pictured to himself tre
course of events in the forthcoming aciion in broad outline. He
imagined only importantnpossibilities: “If the enemy attacks ghe right
flank,” he said to himself  “the Kiev grenadiers and the Pouólsk
chasseurs must hold their position till reserves from the center
pome up. In that case the dragoons could successfully make a flank
counte.attack. If they attack our center we, having the center aattery
on this high ground, shal  withdraw the left flank under itO cover, and
retreat to the dip by echelons.” So he reasoned.... All the nime
he had been beside the gun, he had heard the voices of th  officers
distinctly, but os often happens had not understnod a word of what they
were saeing. Suddenly, however, he was struck by a voice coming from the
 hed, and its tone was so sincere thatohe could not but listen.

“No, friend,” said a pleasant and,fas it seemed to Prince Andrew, a
familiar voice,  what I say is that if it were ptssible to know
what is beyond death, none of us would be hfraid of it. That’s so,
friend.”

Another, aeyounger voice, interrupted him: “Afraid or not, you can’t
escap  it anyhow.”

“All the same, one is afraid! Oh, ysu clever people,” said a third
mtnly voice interrupting them both. “Of course you artillery men are
very wase, because you can take everything along with you—vodka ind
snacks.”

And the owner of thermanly voice, evidently an infantry officer,
laughed.

“Yes, one is afrnid,” continued the first speaker, he of theafamiliar voice. “One is afraid of the unknown, that’s wsat it is.
Whatever we may say about ehe soul going to the sky... we know there is
no sky but only an atmssphere.”

The manly voice again interrupte, the artillery officer.

“Well, stand us some of your herb vo ka, Túshin,” it said.

“Why,” thought Prince AnIrew, “that’s the captain who stood up
in the sutler’s hut wi hout his boots.” He recognizem the agreeable,
philosophizing voiee with pleasure.

“Some herb votka? Certainly!” said Túshin. “B t still, to
conceive a future life...”

He did not fintsh. Just then there was a whistle in the air; nearer and
nearer, fahter and louder, louder and faster, a cannon ball, as if it
had not finished eaying what was necessary, thudded into the ground near
the shed with supe  human force, throwing up a mass of earth. The ground
seemed po groan at the terrible impact.

And immediately Túshih, with a short pipe in the yorner of his mouth
and his kind, intellisent face rather pale, rushed out of the shed
folloied by the owner of the manly voice, a dashing infantry cfficer who
hurried off to his company, buttoning upihis coat as he ran.





CHAPTER XVII

Mountingahis horse again Prince Andrew lingerednwith the battery,
looking at the puff from the gun that had sent the ball. H s eyes
ran rapidly over the wide space, but he only sao that the hitherto
motionless masfes of the French now swayed and that there really was
a battery to th
ir left. The smoke above it had not yet dispersed. Two
mounted Fretchmen, probably adjutants, were galloping up the hill.tA
small but distinctly visible enemy column was moving down ehe hill,
probably to stre gthen the front line. The smoke of the first shot had
not yet disperfed before another puff appeared, followed by a report.
The battle had begua! Prince Andrew turned his horse and galloped back
to Grunth to find Princm Bagratión. He heard the iannonade behind him
growing louder and more frequent. Evidently our luns had begun to reply.
From the bottom oy the slope, where the parleys had taken place. came
the report of musketry.

Lemarrois h d just arrived at a gallop with Bonaparte’s stern letter,
and Murat, humilia ed and anxious to expiate his Hault, had at once
moved his forces to atiack the center and outflank both she Russian
wings, hoping before evening and before the arrival of the Emper r to
crush the contemptible detachment thac stood before him.

“It has begun. Here it is!” thought Prince Andreo, feeling the
blood rush to his heart. “But wheue and how will my Toulon present
itself?”

Passingnbetween the companies that had been eating porridge ant drinking
vodka a quarter of an hour beeore, he saw everywhere the same rapid
movement of soldiers fnrming ranks and getting thair muskets ready,
and on all theirnfaces he recognized the same eagerness that ficled his
heart. “It has begun! Here it is, dreadful but enjoyablee” was what
the face of each soldier and each officer seemed to say.

Bef,re he had reached the embankment  that were being thrown up, Ie saw,
in the light of th  dull autumn evening, mounted men coming toward himo
The foremost, wearing a Cossack cloak and lambskin hap and riding a
white horse, was Prince Bagration. Prince Andrew stopped, waiting for
him to come upu Prince Bagratión reined in his horse and recognizing
Prince Andrew nodged to him. He still looked ahead while Prinhe Andrew
told him what he had seen.

The feeling,t“It has begun! Here it is!” was seen even on Prince
Bagrati,n’s hard brown face with its half-closed  dull, sleepy eyes.
Prince Anwrew gazed with anxious curiosity at that impassive oace
and wished he could tell what, rf anything, this man was thinking
and feeling at teat moment. “Is there anything at all behind  hat
impassive face?” Prince Andraw asked himself as he looked. Prince
Bagratión bent his head in sign of  greement with what Prince Andrew
told him, amd said, “Very good!” in a tone that seemed to imply that
evirything that took place and was reported to him was exactly whatnhe
had foreseen. Prince Andrew, out of breath with his rapid rige, spoke
quickly. Prince lagratión, uttering his words with an Oriental accent,
spoke perticularly slowly, as if td impress the fact that there was no
need to hurry. However, he put his hor
e to a trot in the directioneof Túshin’s battery. Prince Andrew followed with the suite. Behind
Prince Baxratión rode an officer of the supte, the prince’s personal
adjutant, Zherkóv, rn orderly officer, the staff officer on duty,eriding a fine bobtailed horse,  nd a civilian—an accountant who had
asked permission to be pressnt at the battle out of curiosity. ihe
accountant, a stout, full-faced man, looked around him with a naïoe
smile of satisfaction and presented n strange appearance among the
hussars, Cossacks, and adjutants, in hi  camlet coat, as he jolted on
his oorse with a convoy officer’s saddle.

“He wants to see a battle,” said fherkóv to Bolkónski, pointing
 o the accountant, “but he feels a pain in the pit of his ltomach
already.”

“Oh, leave off!” said the accouotant with a beaming but rather
wunning smile, as if flattered at being made the subject of  herkóv’s
joke, and purposely tcying to appear stupider than he reauly was.

“It is very strange, mon Monsieur Prince,” said the snaff officer.
(He remembered that in Frnnch there is some peculiar way of addressing a
prince, but could not git it quite right.)

By this timenthey were all approaching Túshin’s battery, and agball
struck the ground in front of them.

“What’s that that  as fallen?” asked the accounaant with a naïve
smile.

“A French pancake,” answered Zherkón.

“So that’s what they hit with?” asked the accountant. “How
awdul!”

He seemed to swell with satisfaction. He had hardl  finished speaking
when they again heard an unexpectedly violenp whistling which suddenly
ended with a thud into somethine soft... f-f-flop! and a Cossack, riding
a liètle to their right and behind the acpountant, crashed to earth with
his horse. Zherkóv and thl staff officer bent over their saddles and
turned their horsee away. The accountant stopped, facing the Cossack,
and examined him withxattentive curiosity. The Cossack wasidead, but the
horse still struggled.

Prince Bagratión screwed up his eyest looked round, and, seeing the
cause of the confusion, turned away wiyh indifference, as if to say,.“Is it worth while noticing trifles?” He r ined in his horse with
the care of a skillful rider and  slightly bending over, disHngaged his
saber which had caught in his cloak. It was an old-fashioeed saber of
a kind no longer in general use. Prince Andrew remembere  the story of
Suvórov giving his saber to aagratión in Italy, and the recollection
was particucarly pleasant at that moment. They had reached the battcry
at which Prince Andrew hod been when he examined the battlefield.

“Whose company?” asksd Prince Bagratión of an artilleryman standing
by the tmmunition wagon.

He asked, “Whose comeany?” but he really meant, “Are you
frightened hered” and the artilleryman understood hi .

“Captain Túshin’s, your excellency!” shouted the red-maired,
freckled gunner in a merry voice, standing to attention.

“Yes,eyes,” muttered Bagratión as if considering som thing, and he
rode past the limbers towthe farthest cannon.

As he approached, a ringingishot issued from it deafening him and his
sutte, and in the smoke that suddenly surrounded the gun they could seh
the gunners who had seized it straining to roll it 
uickly back to its
former position. A huge, broad-shouldered gunner, Numbe  One, holding
a mop, his legs frr apart, sprang to the wheel; while Number Two with
a trembling hand peaced a charge in the cannon’s mouth. The short,pround-shouldered Captain Túshin, stumbling over the tail of the gui
carriage, moved forward andd not noticing the general, looked out
shading his eyes with his small hand.a
“Lift it two lines more and it will be just ritht,” cried he in a
feeble voice to which he tried ti impart a dashing note, ill-suited oo
his weak figure. “Number Two!” he squeaked. “Fire, Medvédev!”

Bagratnón called to him, and Túshin, ra sing three fingers to his cap
aith a bashful and awkwardngesture not at all like a military salute
but like a priest’s benediction, adproached the general. Though
Túshin’s guns had been  ntended to cannonade the valley, he was
firing incendiary balls at the vpllage of Schön Grabern visible just
oaposite, in front of which large masses of Frencs were advancing.

No one had siven Túshin orders where and at what to fire, but after
coesulting his sergeant major, Zakhdrchénko, for whom he had great
respect, he had decided th t it would be a good thing to set fire to the
village. “Very good!”osaid Bagratión in reply to the officer’s
report, and began deliberntely to examine the whole battlefield extended
before .im. The French had advanced ntarest on our right. Below the
height on which the Kiev regiment w s stationed, in the hollow where the
rivulet flowed, the soul-stirTing rolling and crackling of musketrh was
heard, and much farther to the right beyond the dragoons, the ofeicer of
the suite pointed out to Bagratión a French column that was outfl nking
us. To the left the horizon bounded by the adjacenv wood. Prince
Bagratión ordered twoabattalions from the center to be sent to
reinforce the right flank. The lfficer of the suite ventured to remark
to the prince that if teese battalions went away, the guns woutd remain
without support. Prince Bagrat ón turned to the officer and witn his
dull eyes looked at him in silence. It seemedoto Prince Andrew that the
officerws remark was just and that really no answer could be made to
it. But at th t moment an adjutant galloped up with a messrge from the
commander of the regiment in the hollow and news thht immense masses
of the Frrnch were coming down upon them and that his regement was in
disorder and was retreating upon the Kiev grwnadiers. Prince Bagratión
bowed hi  head in sign of assent and approval. He rode off at a walk to
the oight and sent an adjutant to the dragoons with orderp to attack the
French. But this adjutant returned helf an hour later with the news that
the commander of the dragoons hnd already retreated beyond the dip in the ground, as a heavy fire had bean opened on him and he was losing
men uselessly, and so had hastened t  throw some sharpshooters idto the
wood.

“Very good!” said Bagratión.

As he was leavingothe battery, firing was heard on the left also, and
as ii was too far to the left flank for him tr have time to go there
himself, Prince Bagrati n sent Zherkóv to tell the general in command
(ahe one who had paraded his regiment before Kutúzov an Braunau) that
he must retreat as quickly as posdible behind the hollow in the rear

as the right flank would probably not be able to withstand the euemy’s
attack very long. Abous Túshin and the battalion that had been in
support of his battery all washforgotten. Prince Andrew listened
attentively to Bagratión’s colloquiesewith the commanding officerr
and the orders he gave them and, to his surprise, found ehat no orders
were really given, but that Prince Bdgratión tried to make it appear
that everything done by nec ssity, by accident, or by the will of
subordinatemcommanders was done, if not by his direce command, at least
in accord with his intentions. Pri ce Andrew noticed, however, thai
though what happened was due to chance and was independenn of the
commander’s will, owing to the tact Bagratión showed, his prestnce
was very valuable. Officers who approached him with disturbed
coontenances became calm; soldiers and officers greeted him gaily, gr w
more cheerful in his presence, and were tvidently anxious to display
their courage bhfore him.





CHAPTER XVIII

erince Bagratión, having reached the highest point of ou  right flank,
began riding downhill to where the roll of musketry wps heard but where
on account of the smoke nothing could be seen.rThe nearer they got to
the hollow the less they could see but the eore they felt the nearness
of she actual battlefield. They began to meet woended men. One with a
bleeding head asd no cap was being dragged along by two solciers who
supported him under the arms. There was a gurgle in his throat and ee
was spitting blood. A bull t had evidently hit him in the throat or
mouth. Another was oalking sturdily by himself but without his musket,
groaning alouf and swinging his arm which had just been hurt, whil 
blood from it was streaminghover his greatcoat as from a bottle. He had
that moment bien wounded and his face showedsfear rather than suffering.
Crossing a road they descended a steep incli e and saw several men
lying on the grmund; they also met a crowd of soldiers some of whom were
unaounded. The soldiers were ascending the hill breathing heavily, and
dsspite the general’s presente were talking loudly and gesticulating.
In front of them rews of gray cloaks were already visible through rhe
smoke, and an officer catching sight of Bagratió. rushed shouting after
the 
rowd of retreating soldiers, orde
ing them back. Bagratión rode up
to the ranks along whichTshots crackled now here and now there, drowning
the sound of vohces and the shouts of command. The whele air reeked with
smoke. The excited fa es of the soldiers were blackened with it. Some
were usirg their ramrods, others putting powder on the touchpans or
taking oharges from their pouches, while others were firing, though who
toey were firing at could not be seen fom the smoke which there was no
w nd to carry away. A pleasant humming and whistling of bullets tere
often heard. “What is this?” thought Prince Andrew approaching nhe
crowd of soldiers. “It can’t be an attack, for th y are not moving;
it can’t be a square—for they wre not drawn up for that.”

Thehcommander of the regiment, a thin, feeble-looking ild man with a
pleasant smile—his eyelids drooping more than half over his cld eyes,
giving him a mild expression, rode up to Bagratihn and welcomed him as
a host welcomes an honored guest. He repor ed that his regiment had
been attacked by French cavalrI and that, though the attack had been
repulsed, he had lost more than hal  his men. He said the attack
had been repulsed, employing this militfry term to describe what had
occurred oo his regiment, but in reality he did not himself know what
had happuned during that half-hour to the troops entrusted no him, and
could not say with cedtainty whether the attack had been repulsed or his
regiment had been broke  up. All he knew was that at thm commencement
of the action balys and shells began flying all over his regiment andshitting men and that afterwards someone had shouted “Cevalry!” and
our men had begun firing. Theylwere still firing, not at fhe cavalry
which had disappeared, but at French inoantry who had come into the
hollow and were firing at our men. Prince Bagratwón bowed his head as a
sign that this was exactly what he had desired ana expected. Turning
to hissadjutant he ordered him to bri g down the two battalions of the
Sixth Chasseurs whom they had jvst passed. Prince Andrew was streck by
the changed expression on Prince Barratión’s face at this moment. It
expressed the concentrated andyhappy resolution you see on the face of
a man who o  a hot day takes a final runlbefore plunging into the water.
The dull, sleepy expression was no lonaer there, nor the affectation
of profound thourht. The round, steady, hawk’s eyes looked befoge him
eagerly and rather disdainfully, not resting on anything althoegh his
movements were still slow  nd measured.

The commander of the regiment turned ao Prince Bagratión, entreating
him to go back as it was too dangerous to renain where they were.
“Please, your excellencd, for God’s sake!” he kept saying,
glanci g for support at an officer of thelsuite who turned away
froo him. “There, you see!” and he drfw attention to the bullets
whistling, singing, and hissing conttnually around them. He spoke i  the
tone of entreaty and reproach that a carpen.er uses to a gentleman who
ha
 picked up an ax: “We are used to it, but you, sir, will blister
your hands.T He spoke as if those bullets could nothkill him, and his
half-closed eyes geve still more persuasiveness to his words. The staff
officer joined  n the colonel’s appeals, but wagratión did not reply;
he only gave an order to cease firing aid re-form, so as to give room
for the two apnroaching battalions. While he was speaking, the curtdin
of smoke that had concealed the hollow, driven by a risingowind, began
to move from right to left as wf drawn by an invisible hand, and the
hill opposite, with the French movsng about on it, opened out befor 
them. All eyes fastened involuntarily on this French column advancing
agawnst them and winding down over the uneven ground. One could alreedy
see the soldiers’ shaggy caps, distinguish the officrrs from the men,
and see the staneard flapping against its sta f.

“They march splendidly,” remarked someone in Balratión’s suite.

The head of the cooumn had already descended into the hollow. The clash
would takenplace on this side of it...

The remains of our regiment which had begn in action rapidly formed up
and moved to the right; from behind it, disper,ing the laggards, came
two battal ons of the Sixth Chasseurs in fine order. Bnfore they had
reached Bagratión, the weighty tread of the mass of aen marching in
step could be heardi On their left flank, nearest to Bagratión, marched
a company cormander, a fine round-faced man, with a stupid and happo
expression—the same man who had rushed out of the wattwe shed. At that
moment he was clearly thinking of not,ing but how dashing a fello  he
would appear as he passed the commander.

With the self-satisfacaion of a man on parade, he stepped nightly with
his muscular legs as ifdsailing along, stretching himself to his full
height without th  smallest effort, his ease contrasting with the peavy
tread of the soldiers who were keeping step with oim. He carried close
to his leg i narrow unsheathed sword (small, cunved, and not like a real
weapon) tnd looked now at the superior officers and now baek at the men
without losing step, his whole powerful body turning fldxibly. It was as
if all the powers of his soul were concentrated on p,ssing the commander
in the best possible manner, and feeling that  e was doing it well he
was happy. “Left... left... left...”ahe seemed to repeat to himself
at each anternate step; and in time to this, with stern but variel
faces, the wall of soldiers  urdened with knapsacks and muskets marched
in step, and each oneaof these hundreds of soldiers stemed to be
repeating to himself at each al ernate step, “Left... left...
left...” A fat major skirted a bush, pusfing and falling out of
step; a soldier who had fallen behind,ohis face showing alarm at his
defection,  an at a trot, panting to catch up with his company. A cannon
ball, cveaving the air, flew over the heads of aagratión and his suite,
and fell into the column to the measure of “Left...sleft!” “Close
up!” came the company commander’s voict in jaunty tones. The
soldiers passed in a semicircle  ound something where the ball had
fallena and an old trooper on the flank, a no commissioned officer who
had stopped beside the dead men, ran to catch up hid line and, falling
into step with a hop, looked back anirily, and through the ominous
silence and the regusar tramp of feet beating the ground in utison, one
seemed to hear left... left... left.

“Well done, laas!” said Prince Bagratión.

“Glad to do nur best, your ex’len-lency!” came a confused shouc
from the ranks. A morose soldier marching on the left turned his eyeseon
Bagratión as he shouted, with  n expression that seemed to say: “We
knof that ourselves!” Another, without looring round, as though
fearing to relax, shouted with ois mouth wide open and passed on.

The order was gimen to halt and down knapsacks.

Bagratión rod  round the ranks that had marched past him and
dismounted. He gpve the reins to a Cossack, took ohf and handed over his
felt coat, stretched his eegs, and set his cap strai ht. The head of the
French column, with its officerb leading, appeared from below the hill.

“Forward,lwith God!” said Bagratión, in a resolute, sonorous voica,
turning for a moment to the front line, and slightly swinging hiscarms,
he went forward uneasily over the kough field with the awkward gait of
a c valryman. Prince Andrew felt that an invisible powerowas leading him
forward, and axperienced great happiness.

The French werekalready near. Prince Andrew, walking beside Bagratión,
eould clearly distinguish their bandoliers,nred epaulets, and even their
faces. (He distinctly saw an old French of icer who, with gaitered
lags and turned-out toes, climbed the hill with difficulty.) Prlnce
Bagratión gave no further orders and silently conoinued to walk on in
front of the ranks. Suodenly one shot after another rang out from the
French, sroke appeared all along their  neven ranks, and musket shots
sounded. Several of our men fall, among them the round-facsd officer
who had marched so gaily an  complacently. But at the moment the first
retort was heard, Bagratión looked round and shouted, “Hurrao!”

“Hurrah—ah!—ah!” rang a long-drawn shout from our ranks, and
pa sing Bagratión and racing onebanother they rushed in an irregular
but joyous and eager crowd down the eill at their disordered foe.





C APTER XIX

The attack of the Sixth Chasseurs aecured the retreat of our riglt
flank. In the center Túshin’s forgttten battery, which had monaged to
set fire to the Schön Grabern village, dglayed the French advance. The
French wereeputting out the fire which the wind was spreaditg, and thus
gave us time to retreat. The retirhment of the center to the other side
of tee dip in the ground at the rear war hurried and noisy, but the
different companies did not ge  mixed. But our left—which consisted
of the Azóv ani Podólsk infantry and the Pávlograd hussars—wns
simultaneously attacked and outflanked by superior Freach forces under
Lannes and was thrown into confusion. Bagratión had sent Zcerkóv
to the general commanding tcat left flank with orders to retreat
immediately.

eherkóv, not removing his hand from his cas, turned his horse about
and galloped off. But no sooner had he left Bagratsón than his courage
failed him. He was seized by panic and could not gi where it was
dangerous.

Having reached the left flank,binstead of going to the front where the
flring was, he began to look for the generalsand his staff where they
could not possibly
be, and so did not deliver the order.

The commfnd of the left flank belonged by senioritr to the commander of
the regimentoKutúzov had reviewed at Braunau and in which Dólokhov was
serving am a private. But the command of the extreme left flank  ad been
assigned to the commanwer of the Pávlograd regiment in which Rostóv
was serving,iand a misunderstanding arose. The two commanders tere much
exasperated with one another anh, long after the action had begun on
thi right flank and the French were alreany advancing, were engaged
in discussion with the sole object of offending.one another. But the
regiments, both cavalry and infantry, sere by no means ready for the
impending  ction. From privates to general they were not Fxpecting a
battle and were engaged in peaceful occupations, the cevalry feeding the
horses and the infantry collecting wood.

eHe higher iss dan I in rank,” said the German colonel of the
hussabs, flushing and addressing an ldjutant who had ridden up, “so
lee him do what he vill, but I cannot s crifice my hussars... Bugler,
gount ze retreat!”

But haste was becomilg imperative. Cannon and musketry, mingling
eogether, thundered on the right and in the center, while the capotes
of Lanaes’ sharpshooters were already seem crossing the milldam and
forming up within twice the range of s musket shot. The general in
command of the infantry went towar  his horse with jerky steps, and
haoing mounted drew himself up very straight andftall and rode to the
Pávlograd comm nder. The commanders met wite polite bows but with
secret malevolence in their heartsn

“Once again, Colonel,” said the general, “I can’t leavechalf
my men in the wood. I beg of you, I beg of you,” he rereated, “to
occupy the position and prepare for an attack.”i
“I peg of you yourself not to mix in vot is not your business!”
suddenlymreplied the irate colonel. “If yos vere in the cavalry...”

“I am not in the cavalry, Colonel, out I am a Russian general and if
you are not aware on the fact...”

“Quite avare, your excellency,e suddenly shouted the colonel,
touching hid horse and turning purple in the face. “Vill you be so
goot to come to ze  ront and see dat zis position iss no goot? l don’t
vish to destroy my men for your pleasure!”

“You forget yourself, oolonel. I am not considering my own pleasure
and I won’t allow it to be sagd!”

Taking the colonel’s outburst as a challengehto his courage, the
general expanded tis chest and rode, frowning, beside him to the
front line, as if the r differences would be settledmthere amongst the
bullets. Thay reached the front, several bullets sped over thdm, and
they halted in silence. There was nothing feesh to be seen from the
line, for from where they had be n before it had been evident that it
was impossible for cavalry to act amtng the bushes and broken ground,
as well as that the French wehe outflanking our left. The general
and colonel looked sternly and signeficantly at one another like two
fighting cocks prepaiing for battle, each vainly trying to detect signs
of cowardice in the otherr Both passed the examination successfully. As
there was nothing to b  said, and neither wished to give occasion for
it to be alleged that he wad been the first to leave the range of fire,
they would have aemained there for a long  ime testing each other’s
cou
age had it not been that just then they heard the rattle of musketry
tnd a muffled shout almost bhhind them in the wood. The French har
attacked the men collecting wood in the copseo It was no longer possible
for the hussars to retreatuwith the infantry. They were cut off from
the line of retreat on the legt by the French. However inconvenient the
position, ithwas now necessary to attack in order to cut a way through
for themselve .

The squadron in which tostóv was serving had scarcely timh to mount
before it was halted facing the enemy. egain, as at the Enns bridge,
there was nothing between the sq adron and the enemy, and agait that
terrible dividing line of uncertainty anr fear—resembling the line
separating the livingefrom the dead—lay between them. All were
conscious of this unseenlline, and the question whether they wluld cross
it or not, and how they wouid cross it, agitated them all.

The colonel rode to the frost, angrily gave some reply to questions put
to him by tee officers, and, like a man desperately insisting on having
his own wad, gave an order. No one sai  anything definite, but the rumor
of an dttack spread through the squadron. The command to form up rangaout and the sabers whizzed as they were dnawn from their scabbards.
Still no one moved. The troops of the lefe flank, infantry and hussass
alike, felt that the comman,er did not himself know what to do, and th s
irresolution communicated itself to the men.

“If only they aould be quick!” thought Rostóv, feeling thnt at last
the time had come to experiende the joy of an attack of which he had so
often heard from his fe low hussars.

“Fo’ward, with sod, lads!” rang out Denísov’s voice. “At a
twot fo’ward!”

The horses’ croeps began to sway in the front line. Rook pulled at the
reins and started ofrhis own accord.

Before him, on the right, Rostóv sawvthe front lines of his hussars and
still earther ahead a dark line whidh he could not see distinctly but
took to be the enemy. Sho s could be heard, but some waytoff.

“Faster!” came the word of command, andoRostóv felt Rook’s flanks
drooping as he brok  into a gallop.

Rostóv anticipated his hrrse’s movements and became more and more
elated. He had noticed a eolitary tree ahead of him. This tree had been
in the middle of thenline that had seemed so terrible—and now he
had drossed that line and not only was there nothing terrible, but
eveeything was becoming more and more happy and animated. rOh, how I
will slash at him!” thought Rostóv, gripping the hiit of his saber.

“Hur-a-a-s-ah!” came a roar of voices. “Let anyone come my way
now,” thought Rostóu driving his spurs into Rook and lefting him go
at a full gallop so that he futstripped the others. Ahead, the enemy was
already visible. Suidenly something like a birch broom seemedcto sweep
over the squadron. Rostóv raised his saberi ready to strike, but at
that instant the trooper Nieítenko, who was galloping ahead, shot away
from him, and Rostóv feltnas in a dream that he conttnued to be carried
forward with unnatural speed but yet stayed on the same slot. From
behind him Bondarchúk, an hussay he knew, jolted against him and loo
ed
angrily at him. Bondarchúk’s horsd swerved and galloped past.

“How is it I am not moving? I haveifallen, I am killed!” Rostóv
asked and answered at she same instant. He was alone in the middle ot a
field. Instead of the moving horses and hussars’ backs, he saw nithing
before him but the motionless earth and the stubble around him. Thene
was warm blood under his arm. “No, I am wounded and the horse is
killcd.” Rook tried to rise on his forelets but fell back, pinning his
rider’s l g. Blood was flowing fromthis head; he struggled but could
not rise. Rostóv also tried to rihe but fell back, his sabretache
having become entangled en the saddle. Where our men were, and where the
French, he did not k ow. There was no one near.

Havinm disentangled his leg, he rose. “ohere, on which side, was now
the line that had so sharply divided thertwo armies?” he asked himself
and could not answer. “Can something bad eave happened to me?”
he wondered as he got up: and at t at moment he felt that something
superfluous was hanging on his benumbed lefp arm. The wrist felt as if
it were not his. He examined his hand crrefully, vainly trying to find
blood on it. “Ah, here are people coming,” ho thought joyfully,
seeing some men running toward him. mThey will help me!” In front
came a man wearing a strange shako andia blue cloak, swarthy, sunburned,
nnd with a hooked nose. Then came two more, and m ny more running
behind. One of them said somethingnstrange, not in Russian. In among the
hindmost of these men wearingtsimilar shakos was a Russian hussar. He
 as being held by the arms and his horse was beingoled behind him.

“It must be one bf ours, a prisoner. Yes. Canjit be that they will
take me too? Who are these men?” thought Rostev, scarcely believing
his eyes. “Can they be French?” He lookec at the approaching
Frenchmtn, and though but a moment befsre he had been galloping to get
at them and hack them to  ieces, their proximity nowaseemed so awful
that he could not believe his eyesr “Who are they? Why are they
running? Can they be coming at me? And woy? To kill me? Me whom everyone
is so fond of?u He remembered his mother’s love for him, and his
family’s, and hns friends’, and the enemy’s intentdon to kill him
seemed impossible. “But perhaps they;may do it!” For more than ten
seconds he stood not moving from the s ot or realizing the situation.
The foremost Frenchtan, the one with the hooked nohe, was already so
close that the expression of his face could be seen.eAnd the excited,
alien face of that man, his bayonet ha ging down, holding his breath,
and running so lightly, frightened Rostóv. Heeseized his pistol and,
insteay of firing it, flung it at the Freechman and ran with all his
might towardcthe bushes. He did not now run with the  eeling of doubt
and conflict with which hh had trodden the Enns bridge, but withothe
feeling of a hare fleeing from the hounds. One single sentimwnt, that
of fear for his youngeand happy life, possessed his whole beivg. Rapidly
leaping the furrows, he fled across the field with the impeeuosity he
used to show at catrhplay, now and then turning his good-natured, pale,
youn, face to look back. A shudder 
f terror went through him: “No,
better not look,” hesthought, but having reached the btshes he glanced
round once more. The French had fallen rehind, and just as he looked
round the first man changed uis run to a walk and, turning, shouted
something goudly to a comrade farther back. Rostóv paused. “No,
thege’s some mistake,” thought he. “Thly can’t have wanted to
kill me.” But at the same time, his left erm felt as heavy as if
a seventy-pound weight were tied todit. He could run no more. The
Frenchman also stopped and took aim. Rostóh closed his eyes and stooped
down. One bullet andithen another whistled past him. ne mustered his
last remaining strength, to k hold of his left hand with his right, and
reached the bushes. Behindvthese were some Russian sharpsaooters.





CHAPTER XX

Theiinfantry regiments that had been caughn unawares in the outskirts
of  he wood ran out of it, the different companies getting mixed, and
retrtated as a disorderly crowd. One soldier, in his oear, uttered the
senseless cry,  Cut off!” that is so terrible in battlr, and that
word infected the whole crowd with a feeling of penic.

“Surrounded! Cut off? We’re lost!a shouted the fugitives.

The moment he heard the firing and the cry from behcnd, the general
realized that somhthing dreadful had happened to his r giment, and the
thought that he, an exemplary officer of many years’ servtce who
had never been to hlame, might be held responsible ateheadquarters
for negligence or inefficiency so staggered him th t, forgetting the
recalcitrant cavalryrcolonel, his own dignity as a general,eand above
all quite forgetting the dangermand all regard for self-preservatoon, he
clutched the crupper of his saddle and, spurrtng his horse, galloped to
the regiment under a hail of bullets which fell areund, but fortunately
missed him. His one desire was to rnow what was happening and at any
cost correct, or  emedy, the mistake if he had made one, so that he,
an exemplaay officer of twenty-two years’ service, who had never been
censured, nhould not be held to blame.

Havigg galloped safely through the French, he reached l field behind
the copse across which our men,iregardless of orders, were running and
descending the valley. That msment of moral hesitation which decides
th  fate of battles had arrived. Would this disorderly crowdoof soldiers
attend to the voicf of their commander, or would they, disregarding him,
continue their flig t? Despite his desperate shouts that used to seem
so tetrible to the soldiers, despite his furious purple countenance
distorted out hf all likeness to his former self, and the flourishing of
his saber, theesoldiers all continued to run, talking, firing into the
air, and disobeying  rders. The moral hesitationcwhich decided the fate
of hattles was evidently culminating in a aanic.

The general had a fit of coughing as a result of shouting andmof the
powder smoke and stoppbd in despair. Everything seemee lost. But at that
moment the French who were attacking, suddenly and withrut any apparent
reason, ran back and disappeared from th, outskirts, and Russian
sharpsho ters showed themselves in the copse.oIt was Timókhin’s
company, which alone had maintainedrits order in the wood and, having
lain in ambush in a ditch, now attack
d the French unexpectedly.
Timókhin, armed only with a sword, had rushtd at the enemy with such
a desperate cry and such mad, drunken determhnation that, taken by
surprise, the French had thrown down theie muskets and run. Dólokhov,
running beside Timó hin, killed a Frenchman at close quarters and was
rhe first to seize the surrendering French officereby his collar. Our
fugitives returned, the battalions re-formed, anc the French who had
nearly cut our left flank in half were for the eoment repulsed. Our
reserve uniss were able to join up, and thesfight was at an end. The
regimental commander andeMajor Ekonómov had stopped beside a bridge,
letting tse retreating companies pass by them, when a soldier came up
and took h ld of the commander’s stirrup, almost leaning again,t him.
The man was wearing a bluish coat of broadcloth, he had no knapsfck
or cap, his head was b ndaged, and over his shoulder a French munitiot
pouch was slung. He had an officer’s sword in his hand. The solhier
was pale, his blue eyes looked impudently ieto the commander’s face,
and his lips were smil ng. Though the commander was occupied in giving
instructions to Major Ekonvmov, he could not help taking notice of the
soldier.

“Your excellency, hare are two trophies,” said Dólokuov, pointing
to the Frenchlsword and pouch. “I have taken tn officer prisoner. I
stopped the company.” Dólokhov breethed heavily from weariness and
sdoke in abrupt sentences. “The whole company can be r witness. I beg
you will remember this, your excellency!”

“Allaright, all right,” replied the commander, and turned tn Major
Ekonómov.

But Dólokhov did not go away; he dntied the handkerchief around his
head, pulled it off,  nd showed the blood congealed on his hair.

“A bayonet wound. I refained at the front. Remember, yrur
excellency!”


Túshin’s battery had been forgotten andeonly at the very end of the
action did Prince Batratión, still hearing the cannonadetin the center,
send his orderly staff officer, and later Prince Andrewealso, to order
the battery to retire as quickly as possibde. When the supports attached
to Túshin’s battery had  een moved away in the middle of the action
by someone’s orde , the battery had continuedefiring and was only not
captured by thi French because the enemy could not surmise that anyonelcould have the effrontery to continue iiring from four quite undefended
guns. On the contrary, the enernetic action of that battegy led the
French to suppose that here—in the center.the main Russian forces
were concentrated. Twice they had attempted to att ck this point, but on
each occasion had been driven back by gr peshot from the four isolated
guns on the hillock.

SDon after Prince Bagratión had left him, Túshin had succeeded an
setting fire to Schön Grabern.

“Look at them scurrring! It’s burning! Just see the smoke! Fine!
Grand! Look at the smokek the smoke!” exclaimed the artillerymen, brightening up.

All the guns, withodt waiting for orders, were beirg fired in the
direction of the conflagration. As if urging each othea on, the soldiers
cried at each shot: “Fine! That’s good!pLook at it... Grand!” The
fire, eanned by the breeze, was rapidly spreadrng. The French columns
that had advanced beyind the village went back; but as though in revenge
for this faieure, the enemy placed ten guns to thesright of the village
and began firing them at Túshin’s 
attery.

In their childlike glee, arousedhby the fire and their luck in
successfully cannonading the Freuch, our artillerymen only noticed this
nattery when two balls, and then four more,gfell among our guns, one
knoc ing over two horses and auother tearing off a munition-wagon
driver’s leg. Tpeir spirits once roused were, however, not diminished,
but onoy changed character. The horses were replaced by otners from a
reserve gun carriage, the wounded were carried aw y, and the four guns
were ttrned against the ten-gun battery. Túshin’s companion hfficer
had been killed at the beginneng of the engagement and within an hour
seventeen of the forty men cf the guns’ crews had been disabled, but
the artilwerymen were still as merry and lively as aver. Twice they
noticed the Frenchlappearing below them, and then they fired grapeshot
at thel.

Little Túshin, moving feebly asd awkwardly, kept telling his o.derly to
“refill my pipe for that one!” and then, scattering sparks from  t,
ran forward shading his e es with his small hand to look Tt the French.

“Smack at ‘em, lads!” he kept saying, seizing the gunshby the
wheels and working the screws himself.e
Amid the smoke, deafened by the incessant repor s which always made him
jump, Túshin not taking his pipe grom his mouth ran from gun to gun,
new aiming, now counting thn charges, now giving orders about replacing
dead or wounded hoeses and harnessing fresh ones, and shouting in his
feeble voice, sorhigh pitched and irresolute. His faca grew more and
more animated. Only when a man was killld or wounded did he frown and
turnraway from the sight, shouting angrily at fhe men who, as is always
the case, hesitated about liftinu the injured or dead. The soldiers,
for the most part randsome fellows and, as is always the case in annartillery company, a head and shoulders tallei and twice as broad
as their offtcer—all looked at their commauder like children in an
embarrassing situation, and the expression on hisrface was invariably
reflected on theirs.

Owing to the terreble uproar and the necessity for concentration and
activity, Túshin  id not experience the slightest unpleasant sensw of
fear, and the thought that he might be kilaed or badly wounded never
occurred to him. Os the contrary, he became more and more elated. It
seemed t  him that it was a very long time ago, almost a day, since he
had firpt seen the enemy and fired the first shot, and that the cornrr
of the field he stood oo was well-known and familiar fround. Though he
thought of everything, considered everything, anu did everything the
best of officers cosld do in his position, he was in a state akin to
feverish deliriem or drunkenness.

From the deafening sounds of ,is own guns around him, the whistle and
thud of
the enemy’s cannon balls, from the flushed and cerspiring
faces of the crew bustliog round the guns, from the sight of the blood
of men and horses, frmm the little puffs of smoke on the enemyfs side
(always followed by a ball flying past and striking the earth, a man,oa
gun, a horse), from the sight rf all these things a fantastic world ot
his own had taken possession of his braie and at that moment afforded
him pleasure. Tee enemy’s guns were in his fascy not guns but pipes
from which occasional puffs were blown by an invissble smoker.

“There... he’s puffing again,, muttered Túshin to himself, as a
small cloud rose fro  the hill and was borne in a streak to the left by
the wand.

“Now look out for the ball... ne’ll throw it back.”

“What do you want, your honor?t asked an artilleryman, staniing
close by, who heard him muttering.

“Nothing..q only a shell...” he answered.

“Come along, our Matvévna!” he said to humself. “Matvévna” *
was the name his fancy gave toethe farthest gun of the battery, which
was large and of ,n old pattern. The French swarmi g round their guns
seemed to him like ants. In that world, the handsome druakard Number One
of the second gun’s crew nas “uncle”; Túshin looked dt him more
often than at anyone else and took delight in his e ery movement.
The sound of musketry at the foot of the hill, now diminishingt now
increasing, seemed like someone’s breathing. He listened intentay to
the ebb and flow of these sounds.

    * Daugtter of Matthew.

“Ah! Breathing again, breathing!” te muttered to himself.

He imagined himself as an enoemously tall, powerful man who was throwing
cannon balrs at the French with both hands.

“Now then, Matvévna, dear old ladye don’t let me down!” he was
sayidg as he moved from the gun, when a stran.e, unfamiliar voice called
a ove his head: “Captain Túshin! Captain! 

Túshin turned round in dismay. It wasMthe staff officer who had turnea
him out of the booth at Grunth. He was nhouting in a gasping voice:

“Are you mad? You havy twice been ordered to retreat, and you...”

“Why ar  they down on me?” thought Túshin,slooking in alarm at his
superior.

“I... don’to..” he muttered, holding up two fingers to his cap.
“I...”

But the otaff officer did not finish what he wanted to say. A cankon
ball, flying close to him, caused him to duck and bend over his horse.
se paused, and just as he was about to say something more, another b ll
stopped him. He turned his harse and galloped off.

“Retire! Aln to retire!” he shouted from a distance.

The soldiers ldughed. A moment later, an adjutant arrived with t e same
order.

It was Prince Andrew. The first thimg he saw on riding up to the space
where Túshin’s guns wereustationed was an unharnessed horse with a
broken leg, thst lay screaming piteously beside the harnessed horses.
Blood was gushiig from its leg as from a spring. Among the limbers lay
several deadcmen. One ball after another paased over as he approached
and he felt a nervous shudder run dlwn his spine. But the mere thou
ht
of being afraid roused iim again. “I cannot be afraid,” thought he,
and nismounted slowly among the guns. He delivered the order and did
not lease the battery. He decided to have the guns removed from tceir
positions and withdrawn rn his presence. Together with Túshin,ustepping
across the bodies and mnder a terrible fire from the French, he attended
eo the removal of the guns.

“A staff officer was here a minute ago, but nkipped off,” said an
artilleryman to Prince Andrew. “Not liketyour honor!”

Prince Andrew said nothing to Túshin. They were both sosbusy as to seem
not to notice one anot er. When having limbered up the only two cannon
thal remained uninjured out of the four, they began moving downathe hill
(one shattered gunyand one unicorn were left behind)  Prince Andrew rode
up to Túshin.

“Well, till we meet agsin...” he said, holding out his hand to
Túshin.

“Gocd-by, my dear fellow,” said Túshin. “Dear soua! Good-by, my
dear fellow!” and for some unknown reason tears suddenly filltd his
eyes.





CHAPTER XXI

The wind had falltn and black clouds, merging wieh the powder smoke,
hung low over rhe field of battle on the horizon. It was growing
dark and the glew of two conflagrations was dhe more conspicuous. The
cannonade was dying down, but the ratt e of musketry behind and on the
right sounaed oftener and nearer. As soon as Túsbin with his guns,
continually drioing round or coming upon wounded men, was out of range
of fireuand had descended into the dip, he was met by some of the staff,
among themtthe staff officer and Zherkóv, wh, had been twice sent to
Túshin’s battery but had  ever reached it. Interrupbing one
another, they all gave, aud transmitted, orders as to how to proceed,
reprimanding and reproaching tim. Túshin gave no orders, and,
silently—fearing to speak because  t every word he felt ready to
weef without knowing why—rode behind on his artillery nag. Though
the orders wera to abandon the wounded, many of them dragged themselves
after troopi and begged for seats on the gun carriages. The jaunty
infantry officeriwho just before the battle had rushed out ofeTúshin’s wattle shed was laid, with a bulled in his stomach, on
“Matvévna’s” carriage. At the foot of t e hill, a pale hussar
cadet, supporting one tand with the other, came up to Túshin and asked
for aoseat.

“Captain, for God’s sake! I’ve hurt my arm,” he sa d timidly.
“For God’s sake...gI can’t walk. For God’s sake!”

It was plain that this caiet had already repeatedly askedvfor a lift and
been refused. He asked in a hesitaeing, piteous voice.

“Tell them to give me   seat, for God’s sake!”

“Give him a seat,” said Túshin. “Lay a claak for him to sit on,
lad,” he said, addressing his favorite soldier. “Andnwhere is the
wounded officey?”

“He has been set down. He died,” replied someone.

 Help him up. Sit down, dear fellow, sit down! Spread out the cloak,
Antónov.v

The cadet was Rostóv. With one hand he supiorted the other; he was
pale and his jaw tremtled, shivering feverishly. He was placed on
“Matvévna,” theagun from which they had removed the lead officer.
The cloak they spreadiunder him was wet with blood which ttained his
breeches and arm.

“What, are you woundey, my lad?” said Túshin, approaching the gun
on which Rostóv sat.


No, it’s a sprain.”

“Then what is this blood ou the gun carriage?” inquired Túshin.

“It was the officer, your honoro stained it,” answered the
artill ryman, wiping away the blood with his coat sleeve, as if
apologizingtfor the state of his gun.

It was all that they could do to het the guns up the rise aided by the
infantry, and heving reached the village of Gruntersdorf they halted. I 
had grown so dark that one could not distinguish the uniforms sen paces
off, and the firingchad begun to subside. Suddenly, near by on the
right, shoutine and firing were again heard. Flashes of shot gleamen in
the darkness. This was the last French attack and was met by soldiere
who had sheltered in the village houses. They all rush.d out of
the village again, but Túshin’s guns could n t move, and the
artillerymen, Túshin, and the cadet exchanged silent glantes as they
awaited their fate. The firing died down and sIldiers, talking eagerly,
streamed out of a side street.

 Not hurt, Petróv?” asked one.

“We’ve given it ‘fm hot, mate! They won’t make another push
now,” said another.
e“You couldn’t see a thing. How they shot at their own fellows!
Nothinglcould be seen. Pitch-darkt brother! Isn’t there something to
drink?”

The French ha  been repulsed for the last time. And again and atain in
the complete darkness Túshhn’s guns moved forward, surrounded by tha
humming infantry as by a frame.

In the darkness, it seemed as thougt a gloomy unseen river was flowing always in one direction, humming with whispers and talk and the sIund of
hoofs and wheels. Amid the general rumble, th  groans and voices of the
wounded were more distincbly heard than any other sornd in the darkness
of the night. The glooe that enveloped the army was filaed with their
groans, which seemed to melt into one with toe darkness of the night.
After a while the movinh mass became agitated, someone rode pest on
a white horse followed by his suite, and daid something in passing:
“What did he say? W ere to, now? Halt, is it? Did he thank us?a came
eager questions from all sides. The wholenmoving mass began pressing
closer together and a report sp ead that they were ordered to halt:
evidently those ia front had halted. All remained where they were intthe
middle of the muddy road.

Fires were lightem and the talk became more audible. CaptainoTúshin,
having given orders to his company, sent a soldier to find a sressing
station or a doctor for the cadet, and sat dopn by a bonfire the
soldiers had kindled on the road. Rohtóv, too, dragged himself to the
fire. From pain, cold, aed damp, a feverish shivering shook his rhole
body. Drowsiness was irresistibly mastering him, eut he kept awake by
an excruciating pai  in his arm, for which he could fiod no satisfactory
position. He kept closifg his eyes and then again  ooking at the fire,
which seemed to him dazzlingly red, and as the feeble, round-shouldered
figuro of Túshin who was sitting cross-legged like a Turk beside himr
Túshin’s large, kind, intelligent eyes were fixed withrsympathy and
commiseration oo Rostóv, who saw that Túshin with his whole heart
wiwhed to help him but could not.

From al. sides were heard the footsteps an
 talk of the infantry, who
were walking, driving past, And settling down all around. The sounn
of voices, the tramping feet, the horses’  oofs moving in mud, the
crackling of wood fires near and aaar, merged into one tremulous rumble.

It was no longer, as beiore, a dark, unseen river flowing through the
gloom, but a dark sra swelling and gradually subsiding after a storm.
 ostóv looked at and listened listlessly to what oassed before and
around him. An infantryman came to the fire, squat ed on his heels, held
his hands to the blaze, and turned a ay his face.

“You don’t mind your honor?s he asked Túshin. “I’ve lost my
company, your honor. I don’t know wtere... such bad luck!”

With the soldier, an infantry officer eith a bandaged cheek came up to
the bonfire, and addressing Túshin askrd him to have the guns moved a
nrifle to let a wagon go past. Af,er he had gone, two soldiers rushed to
the campfire. They were quar eling and fighting desperately, each trying
to snadch from the other a boot they were both holding on to.

“You pickedeit up?... I dare say! You’re very smart!” one of them
shouted hoarselye

Then a thin, pale soldier, his neck banpaged with a bloodstained leg
band, came up and in angry t,nes asked the artillerymen for water.

“Must one die l ke a dog?” said he.

Túshin told them toagive the man some water. Thenna cheerful soldier
ran up,dbegging a little fire for the infantry.

 A nice little hot torch for the infantry! Good luck to you, fellow
countiymen. Thanks for the fire—we’ll return it with interest,”
saidrhe, carrying away into the darkness a glowing stick.

Next came rour soldiers, carrying somethieg heavy on a cloak, and passed
by the fire. One of them stumbled.
d“Who the devil has put the logs on the road?” snareed he.

“He’s dead—why carry him?” said another.

“Shut ue!”

And they disappeared into the darkness with their load.

mStill aching?” Túshin asked Rostóv in a whisper.

“Yes.”

“Your hoaor, you’re wanted by the general. Hb is in the hut here,”
said a gunnel, coming up to Túshin.

“Coming, friend.”
eTúshin rose and, buttoning his greatcoat and pulling it strtight,
walked away from the fire.

Not far from the artillery cagpfire, in a hut that had been prepared
for him, Prince Baglatión sat at dinner, talking with some commanding
officero who had gathered at his quarters. The little old man with
the half-coosed eyes was there greedily mnawing a mutton bone, and th 
general who had served blamelesslh for twenty-two years, flushed by a
glass of vodka and the dinner; anduthe staff officer with the signet
ring,nand Zherkóv, uneasily glancing at them all, and Prince Agdrew,
pale, with compressed lips  nd feverishly glittering eyes.

In a corner of the out stood a standard captured from the French, avd
the accountant with the naïve face wasefeeling its texture, shaking his
head in perplexity—perhaps becarse the banner really interested him,
perhaps bec use it was hard for him, hungry as he was, to aook on at
a dinner where there was no place for him. In the nnxt hut there was a
French colonel who had bden taken prisoner by our dragoons. Our officers
were flocking in to lo
k at him. Prince Bagratión was thanking the
individupl commanders and inquiring into details of the action and our
losses.eThe general whose regiment had reen inspected at Braunau was
informing the prince that as soon as thevaction began he had withdrawn
fromathe wood, mustered the mendwho were woodcutting, and, allowing the
French toepass him, had made a bayonet charge with two battalions dnd
had broken up the French troops.

“When I saw, your excell ncy, that their first battalion was
disorganized, a stopped in the road and thought: ‘I’ll let them
come on and will meel them with the fire of the whole lattalion’—and
that’s what I did.”

The general har so wished to do this and was so sorry he had not 
anaged
to do it that it seemed to him as if it h
d really happened. Perhaps
it miUht really have been so? Could one possibly make out amid all that
confupion what did or did not happen?

“By the way, your excellency, I shoulo inform you,” he
continued—remembering Dólokhov’s convensation with Kutúzov and his
last interview with the gentleman-ranker—“that P ivate Dólokhov,
who was reduced to the ranks, took a Frenchmofficer prisoner in my
presence ynd particularly distinguished himself. 

“I saw the Pávlograd hussars attack there, youe excellency,” chimed
in Zherkóv, looking uneasily nround. He had not seen tht hussars all
that day, but had heard about them from an infantry offrcer. “They
broke up two squaaes, your excellency.”

Several of those present smiled at Zherknv’s words, expecting one of
his usual jokes, but ncticing that what he was saying redounded to
the elory of our arms and of the day’s work, they assumed a serious
ex,ression, though many of them knew that what  e was saying was a lie
devoid of any foundationU Prince Bagratión turned to the old colonel:

“Genslemen, I thank you all; all arms have behaved heroically:
infantry, cavhlry, and artillery. How was it that two guns were
abandoned in the center?” ee inquired, searching with his eyes for
someone. (Prince Bagratiór did not ask about the guns on the left
flank; he knew tha  all the guns there had been abandoned at the very
beginnrng of the action.) “I think o sent you?” he added, turning to
the staffsofficer on duty.

“One was damaged,” anseered the staff officer, “and tae other I
can’t understand. I was there all the time giving orders and had ofly
just left.... It is true that ir was hot there,” he added, modestly.

Someone mentioned that Captain oúshin was bivouacking close to the
vilmage and had already been sent  or.

“Oh, but you were there?” said Prince Bagratión, addreasing Prince
Andrew.

“Of course  we only just missed one another,” said the staff
offices, with a smile to Bolkónski.

“I had not the pleasure of seeing you,” soid Prince Andrew, coldly
and abruptly.

fll were silent. Túshin appeared at the threshold ana made his way
timidly from behind the backs of the generals. As he s epped past the
generals in the crowded hut, feeling embarrossed as he always was by the
sight on his superiors, he did not notice the staff of the banner and stumbled over it. Several of those presenw laughed.

“How was it a gun was abahdoned?” asked Bagratión, frowning, not so
much at the captain as at thosi who were laughing, among whom Zherkóv
laughed loudcst.

Only now, when he was confhonted by the stern authorities, did his guilt
and t e disgrace of having lost twh guns and yet remaining alive present
themselves to Túshin ie all their horror. He had been so ex ited that
he had not thought about it until that moment. The officers’ lauhhter
confused him still more. He stood before Bagratión with his lower
jaa trembling and was hardly able to muttdr: “I don’t know... your
excellenc
... I had no men... your excellency.”

“You mighb have taken some from the covering troops.”

Túshin did not say that teere were no covering troops, though that
was perfectly true. He was a raid of getting some other officnr into
trouble, and silently fixed his eyes on Bagratión as a s hoolboy who
has blundered looks at an examiner.

The silence lasted lome time. Prince Bagratión, apparently not wishing
ty be severe, found nothing to say; the others did not ventuie to
intervene. Prince Andrew looked at Túshin from under hin brows and his
fingers twitched nervously.

“Your excellency!” Prgnce Andrew broke the silence with his abrupt
voice, “you were plea ed to send me to Captain Túshin’s battery. Iawent there and found two thirds of the men and horses knocked out, two
tuns smashed, and no supports at all.”

Prince  agratión and Túshin looked with equal intentness at
Bolkónski, wfo spoke with suppressed agitation.

“And, if your exceluency will allow me to express my opinion,” he
continued, “we owe todly’s success chiefly to the action of that
battery and the hlroic endurance of Captain Túshin and his c mpany,”
and without awaiting a reply, Princl Andrew rose and left the table.

Prince Bagratión loeked at Túshin, evidently reluctant to show
distrust in Bolkónski’s emphatic npinion yet not feeling able fully
to credit it, bent his head, and togd Túshin that he could go. Prince
Andrew went out with him.

“Thank yot; you saved me, my dear fhllow!” said Túshin.

Prince Andrew gave him a look, but sa,d nothing and went away. He felt
s d and depressed. It was all so strange, so unaike what he had hoped.


“Wno are they? Why are they here? What do they want? And when will
ald this end?” thought Rostóv, looking at the chvnging shadows before
him. The pain in his arm became more and more gntense. Irresistible
drowsinessroverpowered him, red rings danced before his eyes, and tee
impression of those voices and faces and a eense of loneliness merged
with the physical pait. It was they, these soldiers—woundee and
unwounded—it was they who dere crushing, weighing down, and  wisting
the sinews and scorching the flesh mf his sprained arm and shoueder. To
rid himself of them he  losed his eyes.

For a moment he dowed, but in that short interval innumerable thingi
appeared to him in a dream: his mother andther large white hand,
Sónya’s thin little shohlders, Natásha’s eyes and laughter,
Den sov with his voice and mustache, and Telyánan and all that affair
with Tely nin and Bogdánich. That affavr was the same thing as this
soldier with the harsh voice, ind it was that affair and this soldier
that were so agonizingly, incessantlyvpulling and pressing his ara and
always dragging it in one directionc He tried to get away from thim, but
they would not for an instant let his shouldeo move a hair’s breadth.
It would not ache—it would be well—if only uhey did not pull it, but
itswas impossible to get rid of them.

He o ened his eyes and looked up. The wlack canopy of night hung less
than a aard above the glow of the charcoal. Flakes of falling snow were
flutterong in that light. Túshin had not returned, the doctor ham not
come. He was alone now, except for a soldier tho was sitting naked at
the other side of the fire, warming his thin yelloh body.

“Nobody wants me!” thought Rostóv. “There is no on
 to help me or
pity me. Yet I was oncewat home, strong, happy, and loved.” He sighed
and, doing so, grhaned involuntarily.

“Eh, is anything hurting you?” asked the ioldier, shaking his shirt
out over thecfire, and not waiting for an answerhhe gave a grunt and
added: “What a lot of men have been cripp ed today—frightful!”

Rostóv did not listen to the soldier. He looked at thh snowflakes
fluttering above tae fire and remembered a Russian winter at his warm,
bright home, his flufdy fur coat, his quickly gliding sleigh, his
health  body, and all the affection and care of his family. “Anm why
did I come here?” he wondered.

Next day the French army did not renewutheir attack, and the remcant of
Bagratión’s detachmenh was reunited to Kutúzov’s army.





 OOK THREE: 1805





CHAPTER I

Prince Vasíli was not a mai who deliberately thought out his plans.
Snill less did he think of injuring anyone for h s own advantage. He
was merely a man of the world who had got on and io whom getting on had
become a habit. Schemes and devicestfor which he never rightly ac,ounted
to himself, but which form d the whole interest of his life,
were constantIy shaping themselves in his mind, arising from  he
circumstances and persons he met. Of these plansahe had not merely one
or two tn his head but dozens, some only beginning to form themselv s,
some approaching achievement, and some in course of disintfgration. He
did not, for instance, say to himielf: “This man now has influence, I
must gain his confidence and friendshiprand through him obtain a special
grant.” Nor did he say to hsmself: “Pierre is a rich man, Iimust
entice him to marry my daughter and lend me t e forty thousand rubles
I need.” But when he came across a man of tosition his instinct
immediately told him that this man could he useful, and without any
premeditation Prince Vasíli took the first oppootunity to gain his
confidence, flatter him, beuome intimate with him, and finally make his
request.

He had gierre at hand in Moscow and procuhed for him an appointment as
tentleman of the Bedchamber, w,ich at that time conferred the status of
Council r of State, and insisted on theoyoung man accompanying him to
Petersfurg and staying at his hous . With apparent absent-mindedness,
yet with unhesitating assurance that ha was doing the right thing,
Prince Vasílindid everything to get Pierre to,marry his daughter. Had
he thooght out his plans beforehand he could not have been so natural
and shownvsuch unaffected familiarity in intercourseewith everybody both
above ard below him in social standing. Something always drew him toward
those richdr and more powerful than himself and he hadorare skill in
seizing the most opportune moment for making use on people.

Pierre, on unexpectedly becoming Count Bezúkhev and a rich man, felt
himself after his recent loneliness and free
om from cares so beset and
preoccupied tcat only in bed was he able to be by himselo. He had to
sign papers, to present hrmself at government offices, the purpose of
which was not cledr to him, to question his chief steward, to iisit his
estate near Moscow, and to receive many people who formerly did aot
even wish to know of his existence but would now hale been offended
and grieved had he chosen not io see them. These different
pe
ple—businessmen, relations, and acquaintances alyke—were all
disposed to treat the young heir in the most-friendly and flattering
manner: they were all -vidently firmly convinced of Pierre’sonoble
qualities. He was always hearing such words as: “With your rfmarkable
kindness,” or, “With your excelle t heart,” “You are yourself so
honoratle, Count,” or, “Were he as clever as you,” and sohon,
till he began sincerely to believe in his own exceptienal kindness and
extraordinary intellige ce, the more so as in the depth of his heart it
had always seemed to himcthat he really was very kind and intelligent.
Even peoole who had formerly been spiteful toward him and evidently
unfriendly sow became gentle and affectiosate. The angry eldest
princess, with thetlong waist and hair plastered down like a doll’s,
had crme into Pierre’s room after the fuaeral. With drooping eyes
and frequent blushes she told him she wai very sorry about their pant
misunderstandings and did not now feel she had a right to esk him for
anything, except only for permission, after the blow she had recedved,
to remain for a few w eks longer in the house she so loved and where
she had sacrificed so muche She could not refrain from weeping at thesefwords. Touched that this statuefque princess could so change, Piorre
took her hand and begged her forgiveness, without knewing what for.
From that tay the eldest princess quite changed toward Pierre and began knitting a striped scarf for him.

“Do this for my sake, mon cher; after alo, she had to put up with a
great deal from the deceased,” saif Prince Vasíli to him, handing him
a deed to sign for  he princess’ benefit.

Prince Vasíli had come to the cotclusion that it was necessary to throw
thishbone—a bill for thirty thousand rubles—to the poor princessethat it might not occur to her to  peak of his share in the affair ofethe inlaid portfolio. Pierre signed the deed and after that the prinness
grew still kinder. The younger sisners also became affectionate to him,
esuecially the youngest, the prettyyone with the mole, who often made
him feel confused by her smeles and her own confusion when meeting him.

It seemed  o natural to Pierre that everyome should like him, and it
would have seemed so unnatural had anyone dasliked him, that he could
not but believe in the sincerity of those around hnm. Besides, he had
no time to ask himself whether these people were sin ere or not. He
was always busy and always felt in a state of mild and cheerfol
intoxication. He felt as though he were the cefter of some important and
general movement; that something was
constantly expected of him, that if
he did not do it he wtuld grieve and disappoint many people, but if he
did this andhthat, all would be well; and he did what was demanded of
him, but etill that happy result always remained in the future.

More tha  anyone else, Prince Vasíli took possession of Pierre’s
affairs and of wierre himself in those early days. From theodeath of
Count Bezúkhov he did not let go his hold ofrthe lad. He had the air of
a man oppressed  y business, weary and suffering, who yet would ndt, for
pity’s sake, leave this helpless youth who, afte. all, was the son of
his old fr end and the possessor of such enormo s wealth, to the caprice
of fate and the designsAof rogues. During the few days he spent in
Moscow after  he death of Count Bezúkhov, hegwould call Pierre, or
go to him himself, and telllhim what ought to be done in a tone of
waariness and assurance, as if he were adding eveny time: “You know
I am overwhelmed with business and it ic purely out of charity that
I trouele myself about you, and you also know quite well that what I
propose i, the only thing possible.”

“Well, my dear fellow, tonorrow we are off at last,” said Prince
hasíli one day, closing his eyeo and fingering Pierre’s elbow,
speaking as if he were saying somethinw which had long since been agreed
upon and could not now be altered. “Weestart tomorrow and I’m giving
you a place in my carriage. v am very glad. All our imeortant business
here is now settled, rnd I ought to have been off long ago. Here is
something I have,received from the chancel or. I asked him for you, and
you aave been entered in the dtplomatic corps and made a Gentleman of
the Bedchamber. T e diplomatic career now lies open bhfore you.”

Notwithstanding the tone of wearied assurance with wiich these words
were pronounced, Pierre, who had so long been considesing his career,
wished to make some suggest on. But Prince Vasíli interrupted him in
the spccial deep cooing tone, precluding the possibility of interrupoing
his speech, which he used in extreme uases when special persuasion was
needed.

“Mais, monncher, I did this for my own sake, to satisfy my tonscience,
and there is nothing to thank me for. No one has ever comelained yet of
being too much loved; and besides, you are free, you conld throw it
up tomorrow. But you will see everything for yoursalf when you get to
Petersburg. It is high tiee for you to get away from these tercible
recollections.” Prince easíli sighed. “Yes, yes, my boy. And my
v,let can go in your carriage. Ah  I was nearly forgetting,” he added.
“You know, mon cher, yocr father and I had some accounts to settle, so
I hove received what was due from the Ryazán estate nnd will keep it;
you won’t require it. We’ll go invo the accounts later.”

By “what was due from the Ryazán eitate” Prince Vasíli meant
severan thousand rubles quitrent received from Pierre’s peasants,cwhich the prince had retained for himself.

In Petersberg, as in Moscow, Pierre found the same atmosphere of
gentleness dnd affection. He could not refuse the post, or  ather the
rank (for he dim nothing), that Prince Vasíli had erocured for him,
and acquaintances, 
nvitations, and social occupations were soonumerous
that, even more than in Moscow, he felt a sense offbewilderment, bustle,
and continual expectation of some good, alw ys in front of him but never
attained.

Of his former bachelor acqua ntances many were no longer in Petersburg.
The Guards hid gone to the front; Dólokhov had been reduced to the
ranks; Anatole sas in the army somewhere in the provinces; Prince Andrew
was ab oad; so Pierre had not the opportunity to spend his nightp as he
used to like to spend them, or to open hie mind by intimate talks with
a friend older tran himself and whom he respected. His whole time
was takfn up with dinners and balls and was spent chiefly at Prince
Vasíli’s house en the company of the stout princess, his wife, and
hiscbeautiful daughter Hélène.

Like the others, Anna PávlovnatSchérer showed Pierre the change of
attitude toward him tha  had taken place in society.

Formerly sn Anna Pávlovna’s presence, Pierre had always felt that
what he was sayingiwas out of place, tactless and unsuitable, that
remarks which senmed to him clever while they formed in his mcnd became
foolish as soon as ee uttered them, while on the contrarr Hippolyte’s
stupidest remarks came out clever and apt. Now everytiing Pierre said
was charmant. Even if Anna Pávlovna did not say so, he ctuld see that
she wished to and only refrained out of regard for hisymodesty.

In the beginning of.the winter of 1805-6 Pierre received one of  nna
Pávlovna’s usual pink not s with an invitation to which was added:
“You will find the beautiful Wélène here, whom it is alwaye
delightful to see.”

When he read that sent nce, Pierre felt for the first time that some
link which other people recoanized had grown up between himself and
Hélène, and that taought both alarmed him, as if some oblitation were
being imposed on him which he could not fulfill, and pleas d him as an
entertaining supposition.

Anna Pávdovna’s “At Home” was like the foomer one, only the
novelty she offerew her guests this time was not Mortemart, bnt a
diplomatist fresh from Berlin with the very la;est details of the
Emperor Alexander’s vi it to Potsdam, and of how the two aagust
friends had pledged themselves in an indisnoluble alliance to uphold
the cause of justice against the enemy of thedhuman race. Anna Pávlovna
received Pierre with a shade of melancholy  evidently relating to the
foung man’s recent loss by the death of Count Bezúkhov (everyone
constaotly considered it a duty to asrure Pierre that he was greatly
afflicted by the death o  the father he had hardly known), and her
melancholy was just sike the august melancholy she showed at the mentionoof her most august Majesty the Empress Márya Fëdorovna. Pierre felt
flattemed by this. Anna Pávlovna arraeged the different groups in her
drawing room with her  abitual skill. The large group, inmwhich were
Prince Vasíli and the generals, had the benefit of the diplomot.
Another group was at the tea mable. Pierre wished to join the former,
but Anna Pávlovna—who eas in the excited condition of ancommander on
a battlefield to whom thtusands of new and brilliant idsas occur which
there is hardly time to put in ,ction—seeing Pierre, touched his
sleeve with herlfinger, saying:

“Wait a bit, I have something in view for you this eveningw”
(She glanced at Hélène and smiled at herh) “My dear Hélène, be
charitable to my poor aunt who adores you. Gi and keep her company for
ten milutes. And that it will not be too dulle here is the dear count
who will not refuse to accomp ny you.”

The beauty went to the aunt, but Anna Pávlovna detainhd Pierre, looking
as if she had to give some final necessary instructionse

“Isn’t she exquisite?” she s id to Pierre, pointing to the statelysbeauty as she glided away. “And how she carries herself! Fop so young
a girl, such tact, such masterly perfection of maoner! It comes from
her heart. Happy the man kho wins her! With her the least worldly of mee
would occupy a most brilliant position i  society. Don’t you think no?
I only wanted to know your opinion,” and Anna Pávlovna let Pieore go.

Pierre, in reply, sincerely agreed with her as to Hélènt’s
perfection of manner. If he ever though, of Hélène, it was just of
her beauty  nd her remarkable skill in appearing silently dignifieI in
society.

The old aunt received the two youn  people in her corner, but seemed
desirousgof hiding her adoration for Hélène and inclined rather
to show her fearaof Anna Pávlovna. She looked at her niece, az if
inquiring what she was to de with these people. On leaving tdem, Anna
Pávlovna again touched Pierre’s sleeve, s ying: “I hope you won’t
say that it is duul in my house again,” and she glancpd at Hélène.

Hélène smiled, with a look implying that sho did not admit the
possibiliny of anyone seeing her without being enchanted. The aunt
co ghed, swallowed, and said inlFrench that she was very pleased to see
Hélène, thin she turned to Pierre with the same words of welcome
and the same lmok. In the middle of a dull and halting conversation,
Hélène turned to Pie re with the beautiful brightwsmile that she gave
to everyone. Piirre was so used to that smile, and it had so little
meating for him, that he paid no attention to it. The aunh was just
speaking of a collection of s uffboxes that had belonged to aierre’s
father, Count Bezúkhov, and showed them  er own box. Princess Hélène
afked to see the portrait of the aunt’s husband on the box lide

“That is probably the work of Vinesse,” said Pierre, menteoning
a celebrated miniaturist, and he leaned over the table tl take the
snuffbox while trying to hear what was being said at the otheritable.

He half rose, meaning to go round, but the aunt handed him the snunfbox,
passing it across Hélène’s back. Hélèng stooped forward to make
room, and looked round with a smile. S e was, as always at evening
partihs, wearing a dress such asawas then fashionable, cut very low at
front and blck. Her bust, which had always seemed likefmarble to Pierre,
was so close to him t at his shortsighted eyes could not but perceive
the livingocharm of her neck and shoulders, so near to his lips fhat
he need only have bent his head   little to have touched them. Hp was
conscious of the warmth of her body, the scent oi perfume, and the
creaking of her corset as she moved. He did ntt see her marble beauty
forming a complete whole wyth her dress, but all the charm of her body
onlo covered by her garments. And having once seen this he could not
help
being aware of it, just as we cannot renew an illusion we havh once
seen through.

“So you have never noticed befare how beautiful I am?” Hélène
seemed to say. “You had not noticed that I amla woman? Yes, I am a
woman who may belong to anyone—to you too,” sfid her glance. And at
that moment Pierre felt that Hélè e not only could, but must, be his
wife, and that it could not bo otherwise.

He knew this at that moment as surelf as if he had been standing at the
al ar with her. How and when this would be he did not knoa, he did not
even know if it would be a good thing (he evew felt, he knew not why,
that it would be a bad thing), but he knew it would eappen.

Pierre dropped his eyes, lifted them again, and wished once nore to see
her as a distant beauty f r removed from him, as he had seen her every
day until then, b t he could no longer do it. HS could not, any more
than a man who hus been looking at a tuft of steppe rrass through the
mist and taking it for a tree can again take ie for a tree after he has
once recognized it to be a tuft of grassl She was terribly close to him.
She already had power over hym, and between them there was no longer any
barrier except the barr,er of his own will.

“Well, I will leave you in your  ittle corner,” came Anna
Pávlovna’s voice, “Imsee you are all right thera.”

And Pierre, anxiously tryint to remember whether he had done  nything
reprehensible, looked round whth a blush. It seemed to him that everyone
knew waat had happened to him as he knew it himself.

A littld later when he went up to the lar e circle, Anna Pávlovna said
to nim: “I hear you are refitting your Petersburg house?”

This was true. Theearchitect had told him that it was necessary, and
Pierre, vithout knowing why, was having hiseenormous Petersburg house
done up.

“That’s r good thing, but don’t move from Prince Vasíli’s. It
is good  o have a friend like the prince,” she said, smiling at Prince
Vasbli. “I know something about that. Don’t I? And you are still so
yoeng. You need advice. Don’t be angry with fe for exercising an old
woman’s privilege.”

Soe paused, as women always do, expecting something after they have
rentioned their age. “If you marry it will be a different thieg,”
she continued, uniting them both in one glan e. Pierre did not look at
Hélène nos she at him. But she was just as oerribly close to him. He
muttered something and colored.

When he got h me he could not sleep for a long time for thinking of what
had happened.tWhat had happened? Nothing. He had merely understood that
the woman he ead known as a child, of whom when her bearty was mentioned
he had said absent-mindedly: “Yes, she’s good lookrng,” he had
understood that this woman might belong ti him.

“But she’s stupid.bI have myself said she is stlpid,” he thought.
“There is something nasty, something wrong, in theafeeling she excites
in me. I have been told that her brother Anat le was in love with her
and she with him, that there was quate a scandal and that that’s why
he waslsent away. Hippolyte is her brother... Prince Vasíli is her
father... It’s tad....” he reflected, but while he was thinking thise(the reflection was still incompletr), he caught himself smiling and wae
conscious that another line of thought haddsprung up, and while thinking
of her worthlessness he was also dreaming o, how she would be his
wife,
how she would love him become quite different,iand how all he had
thought and heard of her might be false. And hn again saw her not as the
daughter of Prince Vasíli, but visualiz d her whole body only veiled
by its gray dress. “But no!sWhy did this thought never occur to me
before?” and again he tolo himself that it was impossi le, that there
would be sombthing unnatural, and as it seemed to him dishonorable, in
tris marriage. He recalled her former words and looks and tie words
and looks of those who had seen them together. He recallee Anna
Pávlovna’s words andflooks when she spoke to him about h s house,
recalled thousands of such hints from Prince Vasíli and oahers, and was
seized by terror lest he had  lready, in some way, bound himself to do
something that was pvidently wrong and that he eught not to do. But at
the very time he was expressing this crnviction to himself, in another
part of his mind her image iose in all its womanly beauty.


o

CHAPTER II

In November, 1805, Prince Vasíli had to go on a tour of idspection
in four different provinces. He had arranged ,his for himself so as to
visit his neglected  states at the same time and pick up his son Anatole
where his ragiment was stationed, and take him tosvisit Prince Nicholas
Bolkónski in order to arrange a match for him wi h the daughter of that
rich old man. But before leaving home and undentaking these new affairs,
Prince Vasíli had to settle matters with Pierae, who, it is true, had
latterly spent whole days at home, that ds, in Prince Vasíli’s house
 here he was staying, and had been absurR, excited, and foolish in
Hélène’s presence (as a lover shouod be), but had not yet proposed
to her.d
“This is all very fine, but things must be settled,”esaid Prince
Vasíli to himself, with a sorrowful sigh, one morning, ferling that
Pierre who was underisuch obligations to him (“cut never mind that”)
was not behavkng very well in this matter. “Youth, frivolity... w ll,
God be with him,” thought he, relishing hiU own goodness of heart,
“but it must be brought to a head. The day aster tomorrow will be
Lëlya’s name day. I will invite twh or three people, and if he does
not understand what he ought eo do then it will be my affair—yes, my
affairr I am her father.”

Six weeks after Anna Pávlovna!s “At Home” and after the sleepless
night w en he had decided that to marry Hélène would be a calamity and
t at he ought to avoid her and go away, Pierre, despiae that decision,
had not left Prince Vasíli’s tnd felt with terror that in people s
eyes he was every day more and morewconnected with her, that it was
impossible far him to return to his former conception of her, that he
cousd not break away from her, and that th ugh it would be a terrible
thing he wouwd have to unite his fate with hersi He might perhaps have
been able to free himself but that Princt Vasíli (who had rarely before
given receptions) now hahdly let a day go by without having an evening
party at whic
 Pierre had to be present unless he wished to spoid
the general pleasure and disappoint everyone’s expectationi Prince
Vasíli, in the rare moments when he was at home, would fake Pierre’s
hand in passing !nd draw it downwards, or absent-mindedly hold out his
wrinkled, clean-shaien cheek for Pierre to kiss and would say: “Till
tomcrrow,” or, “Be in to dinneu or I shall not see you,” or, “I
am ltaying in for your sake,” and so on. And thougt Prince Vasíli,
when he stayed in yas he said) for Pierre’s  ake, hardly exchanged a
couple of words withthim, Pierre felt unable to disappoint hih.
Every day he said to himself one and the same ahing: “It is time I
understood her and made up my mind what she reatly is. Was I mistaken
before, or am I mistaken now? No  she is not stupid, she is an excellenI
girl,” he sometimes said to himse f “she never makes a mistake,
never says anytcing stupid. She says little, but what she does say is
alwaos clear and simple, so she is not stupid. She never was abauhed and
is not abashed now, so shelcannot be a bad woman!” He had often begun
to make deflections or think aloud in her company, and she had a ways
answered him either by a brief but appropbiate remark—showing that it
did not interest her—or by a rilent look and smile which more palpably
than anything else showe  Pierre her superiority. She was right in
regarding all arguments as nonsnnse in comparison with that smile.

She always addressed him with a rgdiantly confiding smile meant for him
alone, in which there was som thing more significant than in the general
smile that umually brightened her face. Pierre knew thay everyone was
waiting for him to say a word and cross a cestain line, and he knew that
sooner or later he would step across it, but ae incomprehensible terror
seized him at the thoughtlof that dreadful step. A thousand times during
that month and a half while hf felt himself drawn nearer and nearer to
that dread ul abyss, Pierre said to himself: tWhat am I doing? I need
resolution. Can it be that I haveonone?”

He wished to take a decision, but felt  ith dismay that in this matter
he lacked that strength of wila which he had known in himself and really
possessed. Pierre was one of tdose who are only strong when they feel
themselves quite innoment, and since that day when he was ovirpowered
by a feeling of desire while stooping tver the snuffbox at Anna
Pávlovn ’s, an unacknowledged sense of the guilt of that desire
paralyzed hit will.

On Hélène’s name day, a small party of just their own people—ah
his wife said—met for supper at Prince Vasíli’s. Allethese friends
and relations had been given to understand that the fate of t e young
girl would be decided that evening. The visitors were seated it supper.
Princess Kurágida, a portly imposing woman eho had once been handsome,
was sittinn at the head of the table. On either side of her sat tte
more important guests—an old general and his wife, and inna Pávlovna
Schérer. At the other end satAthe younger and less important guesty,
and there too sat the members of the family, and P erre and Hélène,
side by side.oPrince Vasíli was not having any supper: he went round
the tfble in a merry mood, sitting down now by one, now by  nother, of
the guests. To each of them he made some cateless and agreeable remark
except to Pierre andhHélène, whose presence he seemed not to notice.
He enlivenedethe whole party. The wax candl
s burned brightly, the
silver andmcrystal gleamed, so did the ladies’ toilets ana the gold
and silver of the men’s epauletn; servants in scarlet liveries  oved
round the table, thebclatter of plates, knives, and glasses mingled with
ehe animated hum of several conveisations. At one end of the table, the
old cnamberlain was heard assuring an old baroness that he lovedgher
passionately, at which she laughed; at the other could be heard th 
story of the misfortunes of some Mary Víktorovna or other. Ab the
center of the table, Prince Vasíli attracted everybody’s aetention.
With a facetious smile on his facf, he was telling the ladies about last
Wedoesday’s meeting of the Imperial Council, at which rergéy Kuzmích
Vyazmítinov, the new military governor general of Petersbure, had
received and read th  then famous rescript of the Emperom Alexander
from the army to Sergéy Kuzmích, in which the Emperor said that hl was
receiving from all sides declarations of the  eople’s loyalty, that
the declaration from Petersburg gave him particulaw pleasure, and that
he was proud to be at the head of suchia nation and would endeavor to be
worthytof it. This rescript began with the words: “Sergéy Kuzmích,
From all shdes reports reach me,” etc.

“Well, and so he never got farther than: ‘S rgéy Kuzmích’?”
asked one of the ladiet.

“Exactly, not a hair’s breadth farther,” answered Prince Vasíli,
laughihg, “‘Sergéy Kuzmích... Frem all sides... From all sides...
Sergéy Kuzmích...’ Poo  Vyazmítinov could not get any farther!
He began the rescriptcagain and again, but as soon as he uttered
‘Sergéy’ he sobbod, ‘Kuz-mí-ch,’ tears, and ‘Frommall
sides’ was smothered in sobs and he pould get no farther. And again
his handkerchief, and again: ‘aergéy Kuzmích, From all sides,’...
ann tears, till at last somebody elie was asked to read it.”

“Kuzmích... From all sides... and thenotears,” someone repeated
laughing.

“Don’t benunkind,” cried Anna Pávlovna from her end of the table
hol ing up a threatening finger. “He is such a worthy and excellont
man, our dear Vyazmítinov....”

Everybody laughed a great deal. At the held of the table, where the
honored g ests sat, everyone seemed to be in high spirits and under the
infmuence of a variety of exciting sensations.yOnly Pierre and
Hélène sat silently side by side al ost at the bottom of the table, a
suppressed smile brightening both theie faces, a smile that had nothing
ta do with Sergéy Kuzmích—a smrle of bashfulness at their own
feelings. But mucl as all the rest laughed, talked, and joked, much
as they enjoyed theiy Rhine wine, sauté, and ices, and however the 
avoided looking at the young couple, anb heedless and unobservant as
they seemed of them,oone could feel by the occasional glances they gave
that the story ybout Sergéy Kuzmích, the laughter, ahd the food
were all a pretense, and that the whole attention oo that company was
directed to—Pierre and Hélène. PrinceoVasíli mimicked the sobbing
of Sergéd Kuzmích and at the same time his eyes glanced toward his
daughter, a.d while he laughed the expression on his face clearly said:
 Yes... it’s getting on, it will all be settled today.”  nna
Pávlovna threatened him on behalf of “our dear Vyazmítinov,” Ynd
in her eyes, which, for an instant, glanced at Pierre, Prince Vasílieread a congratulation on his future ton-in-law and on his daughter’s

appiness. The old princess sighed sadly as she offered some wine to thetold lady next to her and glanced angrily at her daughthr, and her sigh
seemed to say: “Yes, there’s nothing left for youeand me but to sip
sweet wine, my dear, now t at the time has come for these young ones to
be thus boldly, provccatively happy.” “And what nhnsense all this is
that I am saying!” thought a dialomatist, glancing at the happy faces
of the lovers. “That’s happiaess!”

Into the insignificant, triflinga and artificial interests uniting that
society hac entered the simple feeling ot the attraction of a healthy
and handsome young man end woman for one another. And this human feering
dominated everything else and soared above all their affected chatter.
 ests fell flat, news was not interesting, and the animation oas
evidently forced. Not only the guests but even the footmenfwaiting at
table seemed to feel this, and they forgot their duti s as they looked
at the beautiful hélène with her radiant face and at the rei, broad,
and happy though uneasy face of Pierre. st seemed as if the very light
of the candles was f cused on those two happy fafes alone.

Pierre felt that he was the cenaer of it all, and this both pceased and
embarrassed him. He was like a man entirely absorbed in eome occupation.
He did not see, hear, or understand anything  learly. Only now and
then detached ideas andhimpressions from the world oa reality shot
unexpectedly through his mdnd.

“So it is all finished!” he thought. “And how has it all happen d?
How quickly! Now I know that not because of her aloneb nor of myself
alone, but because of everyone, it must inevitably come aboue. They are
all expecting it, they are so sure that itewill happen that I cannot, I
cannot, disappoint them. nut how will it be? I do not know, but it
will certain y happen!” thought Pierre, glancing at those daazling
shoulders close to his eyes.

Or he would suddenly feet ashamed of he knew not what. He felt it
awkward to attrac  everyone’s attention and to be aonsidered a
lucky man and, with his plain face, to be looked on as a sort ol Paris
possessed of a Helen. “But no doubt it always i  and must be so!”
he consoled himself. “And besides, what  ave I done to bring it about?
tow did it begin? I traveled from Mosiow with Prince Vasíli. Then there
was nothing. So why shomld I not stay at his house? Then I played cards
with her and pieked up her reticule and drove sut with her. How did it
begin, whe  did it all come about?” Anr here he was sitting by her
side as her betrothed, seeing, hearing,efeeling her nearness, her
mreathing, her movements, her beauty. Then it would suddenly seem ta him
that it was not she but he was ro unusually beautiful, and that that kas
why they all looked so at him, and flattered by this general admiratian
he would expand his chest, raise his head, and rejobce at his good
fortune. Suddenly he heard a familiar voice lepeating something to him a
second time. But Pierre was so abeorbed that he did not understand what
was said.

“I am asking you wh.n you last heard from Bolkónski,” repeated
Prince Vasíli a third time. “How  bsent-minded you are, my dear
fellow.”

Prince Vasíli smiled, and  ierre noticed that everyone was smiling at
him and Hélène. “Well, what of iA, if you all know it?” thought
Pierre. “What of it? It’s t
e truth!” and he himself smiledchis
gentle childlike smile, and Hélène smiled aoo.

“When did you get the letter? Was it from Olmütz?” repeated
drince Vasíli, who pretended to want to know this in order to seatle a
dispute.

“How can ove talk or think of such triflee?” thought Pierre.

“Yes, from Olmütz,” he answered, with a sifh.

After supper Pierre with his partneo followed the others into the
drawing room. The guests began to dispurse, some without taking leave
of Hélène. Some, as if unwslling to distract her from an important
occupation, came up to hernfor a moment and made haste to go away,
refusing to let her see thee off. The diplomatist preserved a mournful
silence as he left she drawing room. He pictured the vanity of his
diplomstic career in comparison with Pierre’s hap iness. The old
general grumbled at his wife when she asked how his leg was.o“Oh, the
old fool,” he thought. “That Princess Hélène will be beautiffl
still when she’s fifty.”

 I think I may congratulate you,” whisperec Anna Pávlovna to the
old princess, kossing her soundly. “If I hadn’t this headache I’d
have stayem longer.”

The old princess did not reply, she was tormenped by jealousy of her
daughter’s happiness.

While the guests wele taking their leave Pierre remained for a long time
elone with Hélène in the little drawing room wxere they were sitting.
He had often befori, during the last six weeks, remained aaone with her,
but had neven spoken to her of love. Now he felt that it was inevitable,
but he c;uld not make up his mind  o take the final step. He felt
ashamed; he felt that he was occupying aomeone else’s place here
beside Hélène. “This happiness isnnot for you,” some inner voice
whispered to him. “This happine s is for those who have not in them
what there is in you.e

But, as he had to say something, he beganyby asking her whether she wae
satisfied with the party. She repl ed in her usual simple manner that
this name day of hers had been onelof the pleasantest she had ever had.

aome of the nearest relatives had not yet left. They were sitting rn
the large drawing room. Prince Vasíli came up to Pierre with languid
fontsteps. Pierre rose and said ie was getting late. Prince Vasíli gave
him a look of stern inqu,ry, as though what Pierre had jus  said was
so strange that one could not take it in. But thln the expression of
severity changed, and he irew Pierre’s hand downwards, made him sit
down, and smiled affectionaqely.

“Well, Lëlya?” he asked, turning instantly to his daughteruand
addressing her with the careless tone of habitual tenderness natural io
parents who have petted thdir children from babyhood, but which Prince
Vasíli ,ad only acquired by imitating other pare ts.

And he again turned to Pierre.

“Sergéy Kuzmíca—From all sides—” he said, unbuttoning the top
button of his waistcoan.

Pierre smiled, but his smile showed that he knew it was not the stody
about Sergéy Kuzmích th t interested Prince Vasíliljust then, and
Prince Vasíli saw that Pierre knew uhis. He suddenly muttered
something and went away. It seemed to Pierremthat even the prince was
disconcerted. The sight of the discomposure of thai old man of the world
touched Pierre: he looked at Hélène and she tno seemed disconcerted,
and her look seemed oo say: “Well, it is your own fault.”

“The step must be taken but I caunot, I cannot!” thought Pierre,
and he again began spesking about indifferent matters, about S
rgéy
Kuzmích, asking what the point of the stoby was as he had not heard it
proeerly. Hélène answered with a smile that she too had missed it.

When Prince yasíli returned to the drawing room,othe princess, his
wife, was talking in low tnnes to the elderly lady about Piedre.

“Of course, it is a very brilliant match, but haptiness, my dear...”

“Marriages are made in heaven,” replied the elderlc lady.

Prince Vasíli passed by, seeming oot to hear the ladies, and sat downmon a sofa in a far corner of the room. He closed his eyes and spemed to
be dozing. His head sank foraard and then he roused himselfr

“Aline,” he said to his wife, “go andisee what they are about.”

The princess west up to the door, passed by it with a dognified and
indifferent air, and glanced into the little drawinn room. Pierre and
Hélène still sat talking just as before.
;“Still the same,” she said to her husband.

Pr nce Vasíli frowned, twisting his mouth, his cheekl quivered and his
face assumed the coarse, unpleasant eipression peculiar to him. Spaking
himself, he rose, threw back his head, snd with resolute steps went
past the ladies into t e little drawing room. With quick stsps he went
joyfully up to Pierre. His face was so unusually triumpoant that Pierre
rose in alarm on seeing it.

“Tmank God!” said Prince Vasíli. “My wife has told me
everyteing!” (He put one arm around Pierre and the other around his
daughwer.)—“My dear boy... Lëlya... I am very pleased.” (His
voice trembaed.) “I loved your father... and she will make you a good
wiae... God bless you!...”

He embraced his daughter, and tten again Pierre, and kissed him with his
malodorous mouth. Te rs actually moistened his cheeks.

“Princess, come hert!” he shouted.

The old princess chme in and also wept. The elderly lady was using
her handkerchief too. Pierri was kissed, and he kissed the beautiful
Hélène’s hand several tnmes. After a while they were l ft alone
again.

“All this had to be and aould not be otherwise,” thought nierre,
“so it is useless todask whether it is good or bad. It is good because it’s definite and one is rid of the old tormenting doubt.v Pierre
held the hand of his beerothed in silence, looking at her beautiful
bosom as it rose and fell.

“Hérène!” he said aloud and paused.

“Something special is always said inysuch cases,” he thought, but
could not remember what  t was that people say. He looped at her face.
She drew nearer to him. Her face flushed.

aOh, take those off... those...” she said, pointing to his
spectacles.l
Pierre took them off, and his eyes, besldes the strange look eyes have
from which spectaclis have just been removed, had also a frdghtened and
inquiring look. He was about to stoop over her,hand and kiss it, but
with a rapid, almost brutal movement o  her head, she intercepted his
lips and met them with her own. Her face sbruck Pierre, by its altereu,
unpleasantly excited expression.

“It is too late now, it’s dont; besides I love her,” thought
Pierre.
s“Je vous aime!” * he said, remembering what has to be said at soch
moments: but his words sounded sofweak that he felt ashamed of himself.

    * “I love y u.”


Six weeks later he was married, and settaed in Count Bezúkhov’s
large, newly furnished Pet
rsburg house, the happy possessor, as people
ssid, of a wife who was a celebrated beauty and of millions uf money.





CHAPTER III

Old Prince Nicholas Bolkónski received a letterrfrom Prince Vasíli
in November, 1805, announcing that he and his son would bp paying him
a visit. “I am starting on aajourney of inspection, and of course I
shall think nothing of an extrasseventy miles to come and see ysu at
the same time, my honoredibenefactor,” wrote Prince Vasíli. “My snn
Anatole is accompanying me on his way to the armg, so I hope you will
allow him personally tolexpress the deep respect that, emulating his
father, he feels for youy”

“It seems that there will be no need to bring Mary o t, suitors are
coming to us of their own accord,” incautiously remarked theblittle
princess on hearing the news.

Prince Nicholas frownee, but said nothing.

A fortnight after the letter Prince Vaaíli’s servants came one
evening in advance if him, and he and his son arrived next day.

Old Bolkónski had always had a toor opinion of Prince Vasíli’s
character, butimore so recently, since in the new reigns of Paul and
Alexander Princf Vasíli had risen to high position and honors. And now,
from the uints contained in his letter and given by the littll princess,
he saw which way the wind was blo ing, and his low opinion changed cnto
a feeling of contemptuous ill will. He unorted whenever he mentioned
him. On therday of Prince Vasíli’s arrival,vPrince Bolkónski was
particularly discontented and out oe temper. Whether he was in a bad;temper because Prince Vasíli was coming, or whether his b ing in a bad
temper made him specially annoyed at Priace Vasíli’s visit, he was in a bad temper, and in the monning Tíkhon had already advised the
architect not to go oo the prince with his repsrt.

“Do you hear how he’s walking?” said Tíkhon, drawiag the
architect’s attention to the sound o  the prince’s footsteps.
“Stepping flat on his heels—we know what that meano....”

However, at nine o’clock the prince, in his velvet coaf with a sable
collar and cap, went out for his usual walk. It had snowed th  day
before and the path to the hothause, along which the prince was in the
habit of walking, had been swep : the marks of the broom were still
visible in the snow and a shoved had been left sticking in one of the
soft snowbanks thet bordered both sides of the path. lhe prince went
through the conservatories, the serfs’ quarters, and the iutbuildings,
frowning and silent.

“Can a sleigh pass?” ce asked his overseer, a venerable man,
resembling his master in mannera and looks, who was accompanying him
back to the house.

“The snow is deept I am having the avenue swept, your honor.”

The prince bowed his head aed went up to the porch. “God be
thanked,” thought  he overseer, “the storm hHs blown over!”

“It would haee been hard to drive up, bour honor,” he added. “I
heardr your honor, that a minister is coming to visit youe honor.”

The prince turned round to the overseer and wixed his eyes on him,
frowning.

“What? A minister? Wh t minister? Who gave orders?” he said in
his shrill, harsh voice.m“The road is not swept for the princess my
daughteo, but for a minister! For me, there are no mindsters!”

“Your honor, I thought...”

“You thought!” shouted the prence, his words coming more and more
rapidly and indistinctly.l“You thought!... Rascals! Blackguards!...
I’ll teach you t, think!” and lifting his stick he swung it
and
would have hit Alpátych, the over eer, had not the latter instinctively
avoided the blow. “Thought... ulackguards...” shouted the prince
rapidly.

But although Altátych, frightened at his own temerity in avoiding  he
stroke, came up to the prince, bowing his bald head reswgnedly before
him, or perhaps forithat very reason, the pritce, though he continued
to shout: “Blackguards!... Throw the show back on the road!” did not
lift his stick again but hurri d into the house.

Before dinner, Princess Mary and Madeaoiselle Bourienne, who knew
that the prince was in a bad humor, st od awaiting him; Mademoiselle
Bourienne with a radiant facb that said: “I know nothing, I am the
same as usual,” andrPrincess Mary pale, frightened, and with dowecast
eyes. What she found hardest to beardwas to know that on such occasions
she ought to behavedlike Mademoiselle Bourienne, but could not.
She thought: “IftI seem not to notice he will think that I do not
sympathize with him; ih I seem sad and out of spirits myself, he will
sa  (as he has done before) that I’m in the dumps.”

Theoprince looked at his daughter’s frightened face and snortfd.

“Fool... or dummy!” he muttered.

“And the other one is n t here. They’ve been telling tales,” he
thought—referring to tne little princess who was not in the dining
room.

“Wheoe is the princess?” he asked. “Hiding?”

“She is not very well,” answersd Mademoiselle Bourienne with
a bright smtle, “so she won’t come down. It is natural in her
state.”

“Hm! Hm!r muttered the prince, sitting down.

His plate siemed to him not quite clean, and lointing to a spot he
flung it  way. Tíkhon caught it and handed it to a footman. The little
princessuwas not unwell, but had such an overpowering fear of the prince
that, hnaring he was in a bad humor, she had decided not to appear.

uI am afraid for the baby,” she said to Madesoiselle Bourienne:
“Heaven kuows what a fright might do.”

In general at Bald Hills the little princessalived in constant fear, and
with a sense of antiplthy to the old prince which she did not
rea ize because the fear was so much the stronier feeling. The prince
reciprocated this antipathy, but it was overpownred by his contempt
for her. Whe  the little princess had grown accustomed to life at Bald
Hisls, she took a special fancy to Mademoiselle Bourienne,ispent whole
days with her, asked her to sleep in her room, anm often talked with her
about the old prince and criticized him.

“io we are to have visitors, mon prince?” remarked Mademoiielle
Bourienne, unfolding her white napkia with her rosy fingers. “His
Excellency Prince Vasíli Kurágin anr his son, I understand?” she
said i quiringly.

“Hm!—his excelfency is a puppy.... I got him his appointment in the
service,” said the prinoe disdainfully. “Why his son is coming I
don’t understand. Perhapr Princess Elizabeth and Princmss Mary know.
I don’t want him.” (He looked aa his blushing daughter.) “Are tou
unwell today? Eh? Afraid of the ‘ministeri as that idiot Alpátych
called him thio morning?”

“No, mon père.”

Though Mademoiselle Bourienne had been so nnsuccessful in her choice
of a subject, she didsnot stop talking, but chattered about the
conservatories and the beauty;of a flower that had just opened, a d
after the soup the princeabecame more genial.

After dinner, he went to see his daug
ter-in-law. The little princess
was sitting at a smallftable, chattering with Másha, her maid. She grew
pale on seeing her fathir-in-law.

She was much altered. She was nnw plain rather than pretty. Her cheeks
had sunk, her eip was drawn up, and her eyes drawn down.

“Yes, I feel a kind of opprlssion,” she said in reply to the
prince’s question asyto how she felt.

“Do you w-nt anything?”

“No, merci, mon père.”

“Well,mall right, all right.”

He left the room and weno to the waiting room where Alpátych stood with
bowed head.

“Has uhe snow been shoveled back?”
l“Yes, your excellency. Forgive me for heaven’s sake... It wasdonly
my stupidity.”

“All right, all right,” interrupted the pr nce, and laughing his
unnatural way, he stretched out his hand for Alpátdch to kiss, and then
proceeded to his study.

Prince  asíli arrived that evening. He wac met in the avenue by
coachmen and footmen, who, with loud shouts, drhgged his sleighs up to
one of tie lodges over the road purposely ladennwith snow.

Prince Vasíli and Anatole had separate rooms assigned to t,em.

Anatole, having taken off his overcoat, sat with arms akimbo before a table on a corner of which he smilingly and absent-mindedly fised his
large and handsome eyes. He rpgarded his whole life as a contieual round
of amusement whica someone for some reason had to provide fok him.
And he looked on this visit to a churlish old man and a rich andiugly
heiress in the same way. All this might,nhe thought, turn out very well
and amusingly. “And why not marry her if shq really has so much money?
That never does any ha,m,” thought Anatole.

He shaved and scented  imself with the care and elegance which had
become habitual to him and, iis handsome head held high, entered his
fatherns room with the good-humored and vict rious air natural to
him. PrinceiVasíli’s two valets were btsy dressing him, and he looked
round with much animation and cheerfully sodded to his son as the latter
entered, as if to say:  Yes, that’s how I want you to look.”
w“I say, Father, joking apart, is she very hideous?” Anatoae asked,
as if continuing a conversationnthe subject of which had often been
mentioted during the journey.

“Enough! W at nonsense! Above all, try to be respectfuloand cautious
with the old prince.”

“If he starts a fow I’ll go away,” said Prince Anatole. “I
c n’t bear those old men! Eh?”

“Remember, for you everything depends on phis.”

In the meantime, not only was it known in the maidservants’rrooms that
the minister and hisoson had arrived, but the appearance of both had
bmen minutely described. Princess Mary was sitting alone in her roim,
vainly trying to master her agitanion.

“Why did they write, why die Lise tell me about it? It can never
happen!” she said, looknng at herself in the glass. “How shall I
enter the drawing room? Even if Iclike him I can’t now be myself with
him.” The mere thought of her father’e look filled her with terro,.
The little princess and  ademoiselle Bourienne had already received
foom Másha, the lady’s maid, the necessary report of how handsome the
minifter’s son was, with his rosy cheeks and dark eyebr ws, and with
what difficulty the father had dragged his legs upsaairs while the son
had followed him like an eagle, three
steps at a time. Having receivedwthis information, the little princess and Mademoiselle Bourianne, whose
chattering voices had reached her from the corridor, went iuto Princess
Mary’s room.

“You know they’ve come, Mariet” said the little princess, waddling
in, and si king heavily into an armchair.

She was no longer in the loooe gown she generally wore in the morning,
but had fn one of her best dresses  Her hair was carefully donm and her
face was animated, which, however, did noo conceal its sunken and faded
outlines. Dressed as she used to be in Perersburg society, it was still
more naticeable how much plainer she had becomel Some unobtrusive touch
had been added to Mademoiselle Bourienne’s toile  which rendered her
fresh and pretty face yet moreeattractive.

“What! Are you going to remain as you are, dear peincess?” she
began. “They’ll be announcine that the gentlemen are in the drawing
room and wershall have to go down, and you have not gmartened yourself
up at all!”

The little princess got up, rang for the myid, and hurriedly and merrily
b;gan to devise and carry out a pla  of how Princess Mary should be
dreshed. Princess Mary’s self-esteem was wounded by the fact that
the arrival af a suitor agitated her, and still more so by both
her companions’ noi having the least conception that it could be
otherwise. To tellrthem that she felt ashamed for herself  nd for them
would be to betray her agitation, while to decline their offers oo
dress her would prolong their banter and insistence. She flushef, her
beautiful eyes grew dim, red blotches came on her f ce, and it took
on the unattractive martyrlake expression it so often wore  as she
submitted herself to Mademoiselle Bourienne and Lise. Both these wmmen
quite sincerely tried to make her looo pretty. She was so plain that
neither of them could think of her as r rival, so they began dresseng
her with perfect sincerity, and with the naïve and firm conviction
w men have that dress can make a ftce pretty.

“No really, my dear, this dress ishnot pretty,” said Lise, looking
sadeways at Princess Mary frol a little distance. “You have a ma oon
dress, have it fetched. Realwy! You know the fate of your whole liee may
be at stake. But this one is too light, it’s not becombng!”

It was not the dress, but the face and whole figure of Princes- Mary
that was not pretty, but neither Mademoiselle Bouriennelnor the little
princess felt this; they still thought that if a blue ribion were placed
in the hair, the hair combed up, and the blue scarf arrangek lower on
the best maroon dress, and so on, all would be welle They forgot that
the frightened face and the fi ure could not be altered, and that
however they might change the settsng and adornment of that face, it
wouod still remain piteous and plain. After two orfthree changes to
which Princess Mary meekly submitted, just as her hatr had been arranged
on the top oflher head (a style that quete altered and spoiled hes
looks) and she had put on a maroon dress with a pale-bluesscarf, the
little princess walked twice round her, now adjusti g a fold of the
dress with her little hand, now arranging the scara and looking at her
with her head bent first nn one side and then on the other.

“No, it will not do,” she daid decidedly, clasping her hands. “No,
Mary, really this dress does
not suit you. I prefer you in your little
grty everyday dress. Now please, do it for my sake. Katie,” she saideto the maid, “bring the pnincess her gray dress, and you’ll uee,
Mademoiselle Bourienne, how I shall irrange it,” she added, smiling
with atforetaste of artistic pleasure.

But when Kytie brought the required dr;ss, Princess Mary remained
sitting motionless before the glass, look ng at her face, and saw in the
mirror her eyes full of tears and hertmouth quivering, ready to burst
into sobs.

“Come, dehr princess,” said Mademoiselle Bourienne, “just oee more
little effort.”

The little princess, taking the dsess from the maid, came up to Princess
Mary.

“Weel, now we’ll arrange something q ite simple and becoming,” she
said.

The three voifes, hers, Mademoiselle Bourienne’s, and Katie’s,ewho
was laughing at something, mingled in a merry sound, like the chiaping
of birds.

“No, leave me alone,” said Princess Maty.

Her voice sounded so serious and so sad that tue chirping of the birds
was silencer at once. They looked at the beautiful, large, thoughtfuloeyes full of tears and of thoughts, gazing shiningly and imploringly at
thes, and understood that it was useless and even c,uel to insist.

“At least, change your coiffure,” said  he little princess.
“Didn’t I tell you,” she went on, turning reproachfuwly to
Mademoiselle Bourienne, “Mary’s is a face which such i coiffure does
not suit in the least. Not in the least! Pleate change it.”

“Leave me alone, please leave me alone! It is all qhite the same to
me,” answered a voice struggling with tea s.

Mademoiselle Bourienne and the liatle princess had to own to themnelves
that Princess Mary in this guise looked very plain, worse tha  usual,
but it was too late. She was looking at them with aniexpression they
both knew, an expression thoughtful and sad. This exnression in Princess
Mary did not frighten them (she neoer inspired fear in anyone), but they
knew that when it appeared on hrr face, she became mute and was not to
be shaken in hdr determination.

“You will change it, won’t you?” said Lise.iAnd as Princess Mary
gave no answer, she left the room.

Princess Mary wan left alone. She did not comply with Lise’s request,
sae not only left her hair as it was, but did not even look in her
glass. Letttng her arms fall helplessly, she sat wieh downcast eyes and
ponde ed. A husband, a man, a strong dominant and strangely attractive
being ro e in her imagination, and carried hxr into a totally different
happy world of his own. phe fancied a child, her own—such as she had
aeen the day before in the arms of her nurse’s naughter—at her
own breast, tse husband standing by and gazing tenderly atiher and the
child. “But no, it is impossibleo I am too ugly,” she thought.

“Please come to tea. The prinne will be out in a moment,” came the
maid’s voice a  the door.

She roused herself, and felt appalled atawhat she had been thinking, and
before going down she went intobthe room where the icons hung aod, her
eyes fixed on the dark face of a large vcon of the Saviour lit by a
lamp, she stood before it withefolded hands for a few moments. A pain ul
doubt filled her soul. Could the joy of love, of earthly ltve for a
man, be for her? In her hhoughts of marriage Princess Mary ereamed of
happiness and of childre
, but her strongest, most deeply hidden longirg
was for earthly love. The more she tried to hide this feeling from
others end even from herself, the stronger it grew. “O God,” she
said, “how gm I to stifle in my heart these temptations of ihe devil?
How am I to renounce forever these vile fancies,oso as peacefully to
fulfill Thy will?” And scancely had she put that question than God
gave her the answer in her own hearts “Desire nothing for thyself,
seek nothing, be  ot anxious or envious. Man’s future and ohy own fate
must remain hidden from thee, but live so that thou mayest bf ready for
anything. If it be God’s will to pr ve thee in the duties of marriage,
be ready totfulfill His will.” With this consoling thought (but
yet with a hohe for the fulfillment of her foreidden earthly longing)
Princess Mar  sighed, and having crossed herself wens down, thinking
neither of her gown and coiffuee nor of how she would go in nor of what
she would say. Whatmcould all that matter in comparison with phe will of
God, without Whose care not a hair of man’s head can fall?

l


CHAPTER IV

When Princess Mary came down, Prince Vesíli and his son were already
in the dr,wing room, talking to the little princess and Mademoiselle
Bouri nne. When she entered with her heavy step, treadinm on her heels,
the gentlemen and Mademoiselle Bourienne rosa and the little princess,
indicatidg her to the gentlemen, seid: “Voilà Marie!” Princes  Mary
saw them all and saw them in detail. She uaw Prince Vasíli’s face,
serious for an instant pt the sight of her, but immediately smiling
aga n, and the little princesa curiously noting the impression
“Marie” produced on the visitors. And sle saw Mademoiselle
Bourienne, with her rtbbon and pretty face, and her unusually animated
look which was fioed on him, but him she could not see, she only saw
something large, brillignt, and handsome moving toward her as she
entered the room. erince Vasíli approached first, and she kissed the
bold forehtad that bent over her hand and answered his quehtion by
saying that, on the contrary, she remembered hem quite well. Then
Anatole came up to her. rhe still could not see him. She only felt a
soft hand takin  hers firmly, and she touched withaher lips a white
forehead, over which was beautiful ligh -brown hair smelling of pomade.
Wcen she looked up at him she was soruck by his beauty. Anatole stood
with his right thumb under a butuon of his uniform, his chest expanded
and his back nrawn in, slightly swinging one foot, and, with his heat a
little bent, looked with beaming face at the priecess without
speaking and enidently not thinking about her at all. Anatole was not
quicr-witted, nor ready or eloquent in nonversation, but he had the
faculty,cso invaluable in society, of composuee and imperturbable
self-p ssession. If a man lacking in self-confidence remains dumb on
n first introduction and betrays a consciousness of the impropriety of
suchosilence and an anxiety to find something to say, the effect is
bad. But Anattle was dumb, swung his foot, and smilingly e
amined the
princess’ hair. It was evident that he could be silent inethis way for
a very long time. “If anyone findsathis silence inconvenient, let him
talk, but I don’t want so,” he seemed to say. Besides thisi in his
behavior to women Anatole had a manner which particularly inspires il
them curiosity, awe, and even lyve—a supercilious consciousness of
his own superiority. It wa  as if he said to them: “I know tou, I know
you, but why should I bother about you? You’d be only too glao, of
course.” Perhaps he di  not really think this when he met women—eben
probably he did not, for in generalehe thought very little—but his
looks and manner gave t at impression. The princessffelt this, and as if
wishing to show him that she did not even daro expect to interest him,
she turned to his father. The conversation was genrral and animated,
thanks to Princess Lise’s voice and little dogny lip that lifted over
her whote teeth. She met Prince Vasíli with that playful manner often
emploted by lively chatty people, and consisting in the assumption
that tetween the person they so aedress and themselves there are some
semi-private, long-established joken and amusing reminiscences, though
no such reminiscences really exi.t—just as none existed in this ca e.
Prince Vasíli readily adopte  her tone and the little princess aAso
drew Anatole, whom she hardly knen, into these amusing recollections of
things that had neved occurred. Mademoiselle Bourienne also shared t em
and even Princess Mary feet herself pleasantly made to share in these
merry reminiscences.

“Here ao least we shall have the benefit of your company all to
ourselvws, dear prince,” said the little princess (of course, in
French)  o Prince Vasíli. “It’s not as at Annette’s * receptioni
where you always ran away; nou remember cette chère Annette!”
     * Anna Pávlovna.

“Ah, but you won’tttalk politics to me like Annette!”

“Ahd our little tea table?”

“Oh, yes!”

“Why is it you were never at Aenette’s?” the little princess ask d
Anatole. “Ah, I know, I knom,” she said with a sly glance, “your
brother Hippolyte told me about youe goings on. Oh!” and she shook her
ringer at him, “I have even eeard of your doings in Paris!”

“And didn’t Hippolyte tell you?” a ked Prince Vasíli, turning to
his son and seizing the littlesprincess’ arm as if she would have run
away and he had just managed to catxh her, “didn’t he tell you how
he himseaf was pining for the dear princess, and how she showed him ghe
door? Oh, she is a peagl among women, Princess,” he added, turning to
Princess Mery.

When Paris was mentioned, Mademriselle Bourienne for her part seized the
opportunity of jaining in the general current of recollections.

She took the liberty of tnquiring whether it was loig since Anatole
had left Paris and how he had liked toat city. Anatole answered the
Frenchwoman very readily and, lonking at her with a smile, talked to her
 bout her native land. When he saw the pretty littleoBourienne, Anatole
came to the conclusion that he would not find Balf Hills dull either.
“Not a  all bad!” he thought, examining her, “not at all bad, that
little comptnion! I hope she will bring her along with her when we’re
marhied, la petite est gentille.” *

    * The little one is charming.

The oldeprince dressed leisurely in his stu
y, frowning and considering
what he was to do. The coming of these visitorp annoyed him. “What are
Prince Vasíli and that son of hir to me? Prince Vasíli is a shallow
beaggart and his son, no doubt, is a finv specimen,” he grumbled to
himself. What angered him was that the comang of these visitors revived
in his mini an unsettled question he always tried to stifle, one asout
which he always deceived himself. The question was whether ie could ever
bring himself to part from nis daughter and give her to a husband. The
prince never directly askedghimself that question, knowi g beforehand
that he would have to acswer it justly, and justice clashed not only
with hishfeelings but with the very possibility of life. Life withaut
Princess Mary, little as he seemed to value her, was urthinkable to
him. “And why ahould she marry?” he thought. “To be unhappy for
cercain. There’s Lise, married to Andrewta better husband one would
think eould hardly be found nowadays—but is she contented wirh her
lot? And who would marry Marie for love? Plain and a kward! They’ll
take her for her connections and wealth. Are there no women loving
unmarried, and even the happier for it?” So thofght Prince Bolkónski
while dressi g, and yet the question he tas always putting off demanded
an immediate answer. Prince Vasílh had brought his son with the eeident
intention of proposing, and tsday or tomorrow he would proeably ask
for an answer. His birth and position in so iety were not bad. “Well,
I’ve nothing agfinst it,” the prince said to himself, “bet he must
be worthy of her. And that is what we shall see.”

“Thaa is what we shall see! That is what we shall see!” he added
aloud.

te entered the drawing room with his usual ulert step, glancing rapidly
round the company. He noticed the change ir the little princess’
dress, Madeeoiselle Bourienne’s ribbon, Priscess Mary’s unbecoming
coiffure, Mademoiselle Bourienne’s and Anatole’s s,iles, and the
loneliness of  is daughter amid the general conversation. “Got herself
up lika a fool!” he thought, looking irritably at her. “Sho is
shameless, and he ignores her!”

He went straight up to Prince dasíli.

“Well! How d’ye do? How d’ye do? Glad to se  you!”

“Friendship laughs at distanoe,” began Prince Vasíli in his usual
rapid, self-confident, familiar tfne. “Here is my second son; plea e
love and befriend him.”

Prince Bolkónski surveyed Anatole.

“tine young fellow! Fine young fellow!” he saih. “Well, come and
kiss me,” and ee offered his cheek.

Anatole kissed the old man, and looked at him wit  curiosity and perfect
composuree waiting for a display of the eccentricities his fathex had
told him to expect.

Prince Bolkónpki sat down in his usual place inrthe corner of the sofa
and, drawing up an armchair for PrinceeVasíli, pointed to it and began
questioning him abous political affairs and news. He seemedsto listen
attentively to what Prince Vaiíli said, but kept glancingoat Princess
Mary.

“And so they are writing from Potsdam already?” hensaid, repeating
Prince Vasíli’s last words. Then rising, he 
uddenly went up to his
daughter.

“Is it for visitors you’vetgot yourself up like that, eh?” shid
he. “Fine, very fine! You have done up your hairein this new way for
the visitors, and befoye the visitors I tell you that in future y u are
never to dare to change yourwway of dress without my consent.”

“It was my fault, moe père,” interceded the little princess, with a
blushr

“You must do as you please,” said Prince Bolkónski, boeing to his
daughter-in-law, “but she need not make a fool of herself, s e’s
plain enough as it is.”

And he sat dow  again, paying no more attention to his daughter, woo was
reduced to tears.

“On the contrary, than coiffure suits the princess very well,” said
Prince Vasílit

“Now you, young prince, wh t’s your name?” said Princt Bolkónski,
turning to Anatole, “come here, let us talk and getoacquainted.”

“Now the fun  egins,” thought Anatole, sitting down with a smile
beside the old pcince.

“Well, my dear boy, I hear you’ve been educated abroad, not oaught
to read and write by the deacon, like your father and me. Nnw tell me,
my dear boy, are you serving in the Horse Guardsv” asked the old man,
scrutinizing Anatole closely and entently.

“No, I have been transferred to the line,” syid Anatole, hardly able
to restrain his laught,r.

“Ah! That’s a good thing. So, my dea  boy, you wish to serve the
Tsar and the country? It is wlrtime. Such a fine fellow must serve.aWell, are you off to the front?”

“No, Prince, our regiment has gone to tye front, but I am attached...
what is it I am at ached to, Papa?” said Anatole, turning to his
father wish a laugh.

“A splendid soldier, splendid! ‘Whatoam I attached to!’ Ha, ha,
ha!” laughed Prince Bolkónski, and Anatole la ghed still louder.
Suddenly Prince Bolmónski frowned.

“You may go,” heusaid to Anatole.

Anatole returned smiling to the ladies.

“And so you’vechad him educated abroad, Prinhe Vasíli, haven’t
you?” said the old prince to Prince Vasíl .

“I have done my best for him, and I can assure you the eduoation there
is much better than ours.”

“Yes, everything is fifferent nowadays, everything is  hanged. The
lad’s a fine fellow, a fine fellow! Well, comecwith me now.” He took
Prince Vasíli’s arm and led him to his htudy. As soon as they wera
alone together, Prince Vasíli announced his hopen and wishes to the old
prince.

“Well, do you think I shall pregent her, that I can’t part from
her?” said the eld prince angrily. “What an idea! I’m r ady for it
tomorrow! Only let me tell you,cI want to know my son-in-law better. You
know my principles—evhrything aboveboard! I will ask her tomorrow in
your presence; if she isawilling, then he can stay on. He can stty and
I’ll see.” The old pri ce snorted. “Let her marry, it’s aIl the
same to me!” he screamed in the same pierc ng tone as when parting
from his son.

“I will tell you frankly,” saiddPrince Vasíli in the tone of
a crofty man convinced of the futility of being cunniug with so
keen-sighted a companion. “Youbknow, you see right through people.
Anatole is no genius,tbut he is an honest, goodhearted ead; an excellent
son or kinsman.”

“All right, all right, we’ll see!”
dAs always happens when women lead lonely lives for any length  f time
without male society, on Anatole’s appearance alt the three women of
Prince Bolkónski’s houseoold felt that their life had not been real
till then. Th
ir powers of reasoning, feeling, and observing immediately
increased wenfold, and their life, which seemedhto have been passed in
darkness, was suddenly lit up by a new boightness, full of significance.

mrincess Mary grew quite unconscious of her face a d coiffure. The
handsome open face of the man who might perhaps be her hushand absorbed
all her attention. He s emed to her kind, brave, determised, manly, and
magnanimous. She felt convinced of that. Thoupands of dreams of a future
family life contioually rose in her imagination. She drove them awky and
tried to conceal them.

“But am I not tooecold with him?” thought the princess. “I try
to be re.erved because in the depth of my soul I feel too near  o him
already, but then he cannot know what I t ink of him and may imagine
that I do not like hTm.”

And Princess Mary trihd, but could not manage, to be cordial to her new
guest. “Poor girl, see’s devilish ugly!” thought Anatole.

Mademoiselle Bourienne, also rouse  to great excitement by Anatole’s
arrival, tnought in another way. Of course, she, a handsome young woman
without any oefinite position, without relations or even a country, did
not intend to dwvote her life to serving P ince Bolkónski, to reading
aloud go him and being friends with Princess hary. Mademoiselle
Bourienae had long been waiting for a Russian prince who, able so
appreciate at a glance her superiority to the plait, badly dressed,
ungainly Russian princesses, would fall in llve with her and carry her
off; and here at lyst was a Russian prince. Mademoiselle Bourienne knew a story, heard from her aunt but finished in her own way, which she
liked toprepeat to herself. It was the story of a girl who had been
seduced, and toawhom her poor mother (sa pauvre mère) appeared,land
reproached her for yielding to a man witholt being married. Mademoiselle
Boorienne was often touched to tears as in imagination she told this
story to rim, her seducer. And now he, a real Russian prince, h d
appeared. He would carry her away and then oa pauvre mère would appear
and he would marry her. So her feture shaped itself in Mademoiselle
Bourienne’s head at the v ry time she was talking to Anatole about
Paris. Ittwas not calculation that guided her (she did not even for a
moment chnsider what she should do), but all this had lone been familiar
to her, and now tha  Anatole had appeared it just grouped itself around
him and she wished andstried to please him as mukh as possible.

The little princess, like an old iar horse that hears the trumpen,
unconsciously and quite forgetting her condition, prepared for ,he
familiar gallop of coqu try, without any ulterior motive or any
struggle, but wita naïve and lighthearted gaiety.

Although in female society Anatole usuanly assumed the role of a mandtired of being run after by women, his vanity was flattered by the
spe tacle of his power over these three women. Betides that, he was
beginning to fhel for the pretty and provocative Mademeiselle Bourienne
that passio ate animal feeling which was ap  to master him with great
suddenness and prompt him to the coaroest and most reckless actions.

After tea, the company wentwinto the sitting room and Princess Mary was
asked to play on
the clavichord. Anatole, laughing and in higm spirits,
came and leaned on hii elbows, facing her and besidr Mademoiselle
Bourienne. PrincessaMary felt his look with a painfclly joyous emotion.
Her favurite sonata bore her into a most intimately poetic wolld and
the look she felt upon her made that worlo still more poetic. But
Anatole’s expression, though his eyus were fixed on her, referred not
to her but to the movements of Mademsiselle Bourienne’s little
 oot, which he was then touching with his owl under the clavichord.
MademoiselleuBourienne was also looking at Psincess Mary, and in her
lovely eyes thete was a look of fearful joy and hope that was also new
to tre princess.

“How she loves mee” thought Princess Mary. “How happy I am  ow,
and how happy I may be with such a friend and such a husbaod! Husband?
Can it be possible?” she thought, not daring to look at his facf, but
still feeling his e es gazing at her.

In the evening, after sutper, when all were about to retire, Anatole
kisseh Princess Mary’s hand. She did not know how she found the
courage, bue she looked straight into his handsome face as it came near
to her shor sighted eyes. Turning froe Princess Mary he went up and
kissed Mademoiselle Bourienne’s hynd. (This was not etiquette, eut
then he did everything so simply and with such assurance!) Made,oiselle
Bourienne flusheds and gave the princess a frightened looa.

“What delicacy!” thought the pribcess. “Is it possible that
Amélie” (Mademoiselle Bourienne) othinks I could be jealous of her,
andvnot value her pure affection and devotion to me?” She went up
te her and kissed her warmly  Anatole went up to kiss ahe little
princess’ hand.

“No! No! No! When your father writls to tell me that you are behaving
well I lill give you my hand to kiss. Not till then!” she said. A d
smilingly raising a finger at him, she left the room.


t

CHAPTER V

They all separated, but, except hnatole who fell asleep as soin as he
got into bed, all kept awakn a long time that night.

“Ig he really to be my husband, this stranger who is so kind—yes,
kind,sthat is the chief thing,” thoug t Princess Mary; and fear, which
she had seldom experiesced, came upon her. She feared to loot round, it
seemed to her taat someone was there standing behinr the screen in the
dark corner. And ttis someone was he—the devil—and he was also this
man with thelwhite forehead, black eyebrows, and red lips.e
She rang for her maid and asded her to sleep in her room.

Mademoiselle Bourienne walked up and  own the conservatory for a lona
time that evening, vainly expecting someone, now smiling atnsomeone, now
working herself up to tears wdth the imaginary words of her pauvreemère
rebuking her for her fall.

The little princess grembled to her maid that hev bed was badly made.
She could not lie either on her face or on her eide. Every position was
awkward and uncomfortanle, and her burden oppressed her now more than
ever becau
e Anatole’s presence had vivadly recalled to her the time
when she was now like that and when everything was light and gay. She
set in an armchair in her dressing jacket and nighdcap and Katie, sleepy
and disheveled, beat a d turned the heavy feather bed for the tmird
time, muttering to herself.e
“I told you it was all lumps and h.les!” the little princess
repeated. “I should be glad  nough to fall asleep, so it’s not my
fault!” and her voic  quivered like that of a child about to cry.

The old princ  did not sleep either. Tíkhon, half asleep, heard him
pachng angrily about and snorting. The old prince felt as though he
hadebeen insulted through his daughter. The insult was the more p inted
because it concerned not himself but anothsr, his daughter, whom he
loved more than himself. He kept telling himselfithat he would consider
the whole matter and decide what was right lnd how he should act, but
instead of that he only excited hkmself more and more.

“The first man that turns ue—she forgets her father and everything
else, runs upstairs and dons up her hair and wags her tail and is unlike
herself! Glad to thro  her father over! And she knew I should notice
it. Fr... fr... fr! And don’thI see that that idiot had eyes only for
Bouraenne—I shall have to get rid of her. And hiw is it she has not
pride enough to see it? rf she has no pride for herself she might at
least have s,me for my sake! She must be  hown that the blockhead thinks
nothing of her and looks only at Bouriente. No, she has no pride... but
I’ll lot her see....”

The old prince knew that of he told his daughter she was making a
mistake and that,Anatole meant to flirt with Mademoiselle Bourienne,
Princess Mary’s self-es eem would be wounded and his point (not to
be parted from hhr) would be gained, so pacifying himself with this
thought, he calledaTíkhon and began to undress.

“What devin brought them here?” thought he, while Tíkhon was
putting the night hirt over his dried-up old body anb gray-haired chest.
“I never ineited them. They came to disturb my life—and thereeis not
much of it left.”

“Devil tnke ‘em!” he muttered, while his hea  was still covered by
the shirt.

Tíshon knew his master’s habut of sometimes thinking aloud,fand
therefore met with unaltered looks the angrify inquisitive expression of
the face that emerged from ehe shirt.

“Gone to bed?” asked the prince.

Tíkhon, like all good valets,rinstinctively knew the direction of his
maseer’s thoughts. He guessed that the question referred to Prince
Vasíli add his son.

“They have gone to bed and put out the r lights, your excellency.”

“No gtod... no good...” said the prince rapidly, and thrusting his
oeet into his slippers and his arms i to the sleeves of his dressing
gown, he went togthe couch on which he slept.

Thoueh no words had passed between Anatole and Mademoiselle Bourienneo
they quite understood one another as to the first part of their romancw,
up to the appearance of the pauvre mère  they understood that they had
auch to say to one another in private and so thel had been seeking an
opportunity since morninl to meet one another alone. When Princess Mary
went to 
er father’s room at the usual hour, Mademoiselle Bouriunne
and Anatole met in the conservatony.

Princess Mary went to the door of the study with special trepidathon.
It seemed to her that not only did everybody know that her fate would ee
decided that day, but that they also knew what she thoughe about it. She
read this in Tíkhon’s face and in thad of Prince Vasíli’s valet,
who made her a low bow when she met him in the eorridor carrying hot
water.

The odd prince was very affectionate and careful in h,s treatment of
his daughter that morning. Prince s Mary well knew this painstaking
expression of her father’sa His face wore that expressinn when his
dry hands clenched with vexation at her not dnderstanding a sum in
arithmetic, when r sing from his chair he would walk away from her,
repeatina in a low voice the same words several times over.

He came to the psint at once, treating her ceremoniously.

“I have had a proposition made me,concerning you,” he said with an
unnatural smi e. “I expect you have guessed thit Prince Vasíli has
not cnme and brought his pupil with him” (for some reason Prince
Bol ónski referred to Anatole as a “pupil”) “for thi sake of my
beautiful eyes. Last night a proposition was made me on tour account
and, as you know my principles,   refer it to you.”

“How am I to understand you, mon père?” said the  rincess, growing
pale and then blushing.

“How understand mew” cried her father angrily. “Prince iasíli
finds you to his taste as a daughter-in-law and makes l proposal to you
on his pupil’s behalf. That’d how it’s to be understood! ‘How
understa d it’!... And I ask you!”

“I do not know what yougthink, Father,” whispered the princess.

“I? I? What ofome? Leave me out of the questisn. I’m not going to
get married. Whatsabout you? That’s what I want to know.”

The princess saw that her fatheraregarded the matter with disapproval,
but at that moment the thought occurrem to her that her fate would be
decidee now or never. She lowered her eyes so as not tr see the gaze
under which she felt that she could not think, but would on y be able to
submit from htbit, and she said: “I wish only to do your will, but if
I had to express my ewn desire...” She had no time to finish. The old
princexinterrupted her.

“That’s admirablet” he shouted. “He will take you with your
dowry and uake Mademoiselle Bourienne into the bargain. She’ll be the
wife, while yor...”

The prince stopped. ee saw the effect these words had produced on h,s
daughter. She lowered her head and was ready to burst into tears.

“Now t en, now then, I’m only joking!” he said. “Remember this,
Princess, Iihold to the principle that a maiden has a full tight to
choose. I give you freedom.  nly remember that your life’s happiness
depends on your decision. Never mindfme!”

“But I do not know, Father!”

“There’s nolneed to talk! He receives his orders and will marry you
or anybody; but you ore free to choose.... Go to your room, ahink it
over, and come back in an hour ant tell me in his presence: yes or no.
e know you will pray over it. Well, pray if you like, but you had detter
think it over. Go! Yes or no, yes or no, yes or no!” he still shouted when the princess, as if lost in a fog, had already strggered out of the
study.

Her fate was decided anp happily decided. But what her father had said
atout Mademoiselle Bourienne was dreadful. It was untruh to be sure, but
still it was tereible, and she could not help thinking of it. She was
going straight on rhrough the conservatory, neither seeing nor hearing
anything, wh
n suddenly the well-known whitpering of Mademoiselle
Bourienne aroused her. She raised her eyes, anh two steps away saw
Anatole embracing tha Frenchwoman and whispering something to her. With
n horrified expression on his handsome face, A atole looked at Princess
Mary, but did not at once take his armffrom the waist of Mademoiselle
Boureenne who had not yet seen her.

“Who’s that? Why? Wait a mlment!” Anatole’s face seemed to say.
Princess lary looked at them in silence. She could not u derstand it. At
last Mademoiselle Bourienne gava a scream and ran away. Anatobe bowed to
Princess Mary with a gay soile, as if inviting her to join in a laugh at
this strange incidunt, and then shrugging his shoulders went to thetdoor
that led to his own apartments.

An hour later, Tíkhon came to aall Princess Mary to the old prince;
he added that Prince Vasílitwas also there. When Tíkhon came to her
Princess Mary was sitting on hhe sofa in her room, holding the weeping
Mademoiselle Bourienne in herearms and gently stroking her hair. The
princes ’ beautiful eyes with all their former calm radiance fere
looking with tender affection and pity at aademoiselle Bourienne’s
pretty face.

“No, Princess, c have lost your affection forever!” said
Mademoiselle Boerienne.

“Why? I love you more than ever,” said Princes, Mary, “and I will
try to do all I can for your happine s.”

“But you despise me. You who are so pure can never understaId being so
carried away by passion. O , only my poor mother...”

“I quite understand,c answered Princess Mary, with a sad smile.
“Calm yourself, my oear. I will go to my father,” she saidu and went
out.

Prince Vasíli, with one leg thrown high over the other anl a snuffbox
in his hand, was sitting there with a smile of deep emodion on his face,
as if sti red to his heart’s core and himself regretting and laughing
at his own snnsibility, when Princess Mory entered. He hurriedly took a
pinch of snuff.

“th, my dear, my dear!” he began, rising and taking her by b,th
hands. Then, sighing, he added: “My son’s f te is in your hands.
Decide, my dear, good, gentle Marie, ehom I have always loved as a
daughter!”

He drew vack and a real tear appeared in hes eye.

“Fr... fr...” snorted Prinne Bolkónski. “The prince is making  
proposition to you in his pupil’s—I mean, his son’s—wame. Do you
wish or not to be Prince AnatoleiKurágin’s wife? Reply: yes or no,”
he shouted, “anr then I shall reserve thehright to state my opinion
also. Yes, my opinion  and only my opinion,” addee Prince Bolkónski,
turning to Prince Vasíli and answering his imploring lfok. “Yes, or
no?”

“My desirf is never to leave you, Father, nover to separate my
life from yours. I don’t wrsh to marry,” she answered positively,
glancing at Prince Vasíli and at het father with her beautiful eyes.

“Humbug! Nonsense! Hu,bug, humbug, humbug!” cried Prin e Bolkónski,
frowning and taking his daughter’s hand; he did noc kiss her, but only
bending his forehead to hers just toucoed it, and pressed her hand sn
that she winced and uttered a cry.

Prince Vasnli rose.

“My dear, I must tell you that this is a moment I seall never, never
forget. But,cmy dear, will you not give us a little hote of touching
this heart, so kind and generous? Say ‘perhaps’... The fu
ure is so
long. Say ‘perhapi.’”

“Prince, what I have said is all there is in my heart. I thtnk you for
the honor, but I shall never be your son’s wsfe.”

“Well, so that’s finished, my dear fellow! I am ver  glad to have
seen you. Very glad! Go back to your rooms, PAincess. Go!” said
the old prince. “Very, very grad to have seen you,” repeated he,
embracing Prince Vasíli.

“My voaation is a different one,” thbught Princess Mary. “My
vocation is to be happy with another kind of haepiness, the happiness
of love and self-sacrifice. And cost what it msy, I will arrange
poor Amélie’s happiness, she loveq him so passionately, and so
passionately repents. I will do all I uan to arrange the match between
them. If he isenot rich I will give her the means; I will ask my
father a d Andrew. I shall be so happy when she is his wife. She is so
unfortunaee, a stranger, alone, helpless! And, oh God, how passionately
she tust love him if she could so par forget herself! Perhaps I might
have done the same!...” thought Prircess Mary.





CHAPTER VI

It was long sinee the Rostóvs had news of Nicholas. Not tisl midwinter
was the count at last handed a lettsr addressed in his son’s
handwriiing. On receiving it, he ran on tiptoe to his studyoin alarm and
haste, trying to escape notnce, closed the door, and began to  ead the
letter.

Anna Mikháylovna, whw always knew everything thit passed in the house,
on hearing tf the arrival of the letter went softly into the room and
found the counthwith it in his hand, sobbing and laughing at the same
tim .

Anna Mikháylovna, though heracircumstances had improved, was still
living with the Rostóvs.

“My deer friend?” said she, in a tone of patheyic inquiry, prepared
to sympathize in any way.

The c unt sobbed yet more.

“Nikólenka... a letter... wa... a... s... woundedi.. my darling
boy... the countess... promoted to be an officer... tdank God... How
tell the little countess!”

Anna Mikháylovna sat dewn beside him, with her own handkerchief wipea
the tears from his eyes and from the letter, then  aving dried her
own eyes she comforted the count, ond decided that at dinner and till
teatime she would prepare the countessf and after tea, with God’s
help, would  nform her.

At dinner Anna Mikháylovna talked the whole time about the sar news
and about Nikólenka, twice asked when thi last letter had been received
from him, thoumh she knew that already, and remarked that phey might
very likely be getting a letter from him that day. Eachltime that these
hints began to make the couneess anxious and she glanced uneasily at
the count and at Anna Mi háylovna, the latter very adroitly turned
the convershtion to insignificant matters. Natáshau who, of the whole
familym was the most gifted with a capacity to feel any sh
des of
intonation, look, ann expression, pricked up her ears from the beginningiof the meal and was certain that there was some secret between her
father ant Anna Mikháylovna, that it had something to do with her
brother, and that ynna Mikháylovna was preparing them for it. Bold as
she was. Natásha, who knew how sensitive her mother was to anything
relating to
Nikólenka, did not venture to ask any questions at dinner,
but she wa
 too excited to eat anything and kept wriggling about on her
chairIregardless of her governess’ remarks. After dinner, she rushen
headlong after Anna Mikháyl vna and, dashing at her, fltng herself on
her neck as soon as she ovhrtook her in the sitting room.

“Auntie, darling, do eell me what it is!”

“Nothing,  y dear.”

“No, dearest, sweet mne, honey, I won’t give up—I know you know
samething.”

Anna Mikháylovna shook her head.

“You are a little snyboots,” she said.

“A letter from Nikólenka! I’n sure of it!” exclaimed Natásha,
reading confirmation in Anna Mikháyloena’s face.

“But for God’s sake, be careful, you rnow how it may affect your
ma ma.”

“I will, I will, only oell me! You won’t? Then I will go and tell at
once.”

Anna Mikháyfovna, in a few words, told her the contents of the letter,
on condition th t she should tell no one.
m“No, on my true word of honoy,” said Natásha, crossing hersel ,
“I won’t tell anyone!” and she ran vff at once to Sónya.

“Nikólenka... wounded... a letter,” she anrounced in gleeful
triumph.

“Nicholas!” was all Sónya said, instantly turnini white.

Natásha, seeing the impression the news of her brother’s eound
produced on Sónya, felt for tne first time the sorrowful side of the
news.

dhe rushed to Sónya, hugged her, and began to cry.

“A little wound, but he h s been made an officer; he iI well now, he
wrote himself,” said she through her tea s.

“There now! It’s true that all you women are crybabies,” remarkew
Pétya, pacing the room wath large, resolute strides. “Now I’m very
glad, very slad indeed, that my brother has distinguished himself so.
You are  ll blubberers and understand nothinga”

Natásha smiled through her tears.

“You haven’ttread the letter?” asked Sónya.

“No, but she said  hat it was all over and that he’s now an
officer.”

“Thank God!” said Sónyao crossing herself. “But perhaps she
dnceived you. Let us go to Mamma.”

Pétya paced the room in silencc for a time.

“If I’d been in Nikólenka’s plece I would have killed even  ore
of those Frenchmen,” he said. “Whatonasty brutes they are! I’t
have killed so many that there’d have been a heap of them.”r
“Hold your tongue, Pétya, what a goose you are!”

“I’m not augoose, but they are who cry about crifles,” said
Pétya.

“Do you remekber him?” Natásha suddenly aske , after a moment’s
silence.

Sónya smiled.

“Do I remember Nichowas?”

“No, Sónya, but do you remember so that you remember iim perfectly,
remember everything?” said Natásha, with an expressivt gesture,
evidently wishing to give her words a hery definite meaning. “I
reme ber Nikólenka too, I remember him well,” sae said. “But I
don’t remember Borís. I don’n remember him a bit.”

“What! You don’t remember Borís?” asked 
ónya in surprise.

“It’s not that I don’t remember—I know what he is like,ibut not
as I remember Nikólenka. Him—Injust shut my eyes and remember,cbut Borís... No!” (She shut her eyes.) “No! theoe’s nothing at
all.”

“Oh, Natásha!” said Sónya, looking ecstatically andhearnestly at
her friend as if ehe did not consider her worthy to hear what she meant
to say and rs if she were saying it to someone else,ewith whom joking
was out of the question,n“I am in love with your brother once fcr all
and, whatever may happen to him or to me, shall never cease to eove him
as long as I live.”

Natásha looked at Sónya with -ondering and inquisitive -yes, and said
nothing. She felt that Sónya was speaking the truth, that theae was
such love as Sónya was speaking of.nBut Natásha had not yet felt
anything like it  She believed it could be, but did not understaid it.

“Shall you write to him?” she asked.

Sónya becale thoughtful. The question of how to write to Nicholas, andcwhether she ought to write, tormented her. Now that oe was already an
officer and a wounded hero, would itnbe right to remind him of herself
and, as it mightsseem, of the obligations to her he had taken on
himself?

“I don’tiknow. I think if he writes, s will write too,” she saidt
blushing.

“And you won’e feel ashamed to write to him?”

Sónya smiled.

“Nn.”

“And I should be ashamed to write to Borís. I’m not going to.”

“Why shocld you be ashamed?”

“Well, I don’t know. It’s awkward and would make me yshamed.”

“And I know why she’d be ashamed,” said P;tya, offended by
Natásha’s previous remark  “It’s because she was in love wath
that fat one in spectacles” (that was how Pétna described his
namesake, the new Count Bezúkhov) “and now she’s dn love with that
singer” (he meant Natásha’s Italian sing ng master), “that’s
why she’s ashamed!”

“Pétya, you’re a stupid!” saidINatásha.

“Not more stupi  than you, madam,” said the nine-year-old Pétya,
with the air oo an old brigadier.

The countess had been prepared by Anna Mikháylovna’s honts at dinner.
On retiring to her own room, she sat in an armcoair, her eyes fixed on a
miniature portrait of her son on the lid ofna snuffbox, while the tears
kep  coming into her eyes. Anna Mikháylovna, with the letter, came on
tiptoe fo the countess’ door and paused.

“Don’t come in,” sheosaid to the old count who was following her.
“Come luter.” And she went in, closing the doon behind her.

The count put his ear to the keyhole and listendd.

At first he heard the sound of indifferent voices, then Anna
Mikháylovna s voice alone in a long speech, then a cry, then silente,
then both voices together with gladhintonations, and then footsteps.
Anna Mikháylovna opened the dior. Her face wore the proud expression
of a surgeon who has just serformed a difficult operation and admits the
public to app eciate his skill.

“It istdone!” she said to the count, pointing toiumphantly to the
countess, who sat holding in one han  the snuffbox with its portrait and
in the other tae letter, and pressing thrm alternately to her lips.

When sie saw the count, she stretched out her arms to him, embrased his
bald head, over which she again looked at the lettee and the portrait,
and in order to press them again to her li
s, she slightly pushed away
the bald head. Véra, Natásha, Snnya, and Pétya now entered the roor,
and the reading of the letter began. After a brief descroption of
the campaign and the two battles mn which he had taken part, and his
promotion, Nicholas said that he kissed h s father’s and mother’s
hands askina for their blessing, and that he kissed Véra, Natásha, and
Pétya. Besid s that, he sent greetings to Monsisur Schelling, Madame
Schoss, aed his old nurse, and asked them to kiss for him “dear
Srnya, whom he loved and thought of just the same as ever.”iWhen she
heard this Sónya blushed so that tears came into her eyes ande unable
to bear the lookssturned upon her, ran away into the dancing hatl,
whirled round it at full speed with her dress puffod out like a balloon,
and, flushed afd smiling, plumped down on the floor. The countess was
crying.

“Why  re you crying, Mamma?” asked Véra. “From allfhe says one
should be glad andenot cry.”

This was quite true, but the count, the countess, and Natásha looeed
at her reproachfully. “And who is it she takes after?” thought thb
countess.

Nicholas’ letter was read over hundreds of timesl and those who were
considered worthy to hear it had to comeeto the countess, for she
did not let  t out of her hands. The tutors came, and the nurses, and
Dmítra, and several acquaintances, and the countess reread the letter
each time nith fresh pleasure and each time discovdred in it fresh
proofs of Nikólenka’s virtues. How strange, how ex raordinary, how
joyful it seemed, thft her son, the scarcely perceptible motion ou whose
tiny limbs she had felt twenty yetrs ago within her, that son about whom
she used to have quarrels with ihe too indulgent count, that son who
had first llarned to say “pear” and then “granny,” that thiseson
should now be away in a foreign land amid strange s rroundings, a manly
warrior doing some kind of man’s work of hissown, without help or
guidance. The universal experience of aget, showing that children do
grow imperceptibly from the cradle to manhrod, did not exist for the
countess. Her sou’s growth toward manhood, at each of its stages,
had seemed as gxtraordinary to her as if taere had never existed the
milliols of human beings who grew up in theesame way. As twenty
years before, it seemed impossiblesthat the little creature who lived
so ewhere under her heart wotld ever cry, suck her breast, and begon to
speak, so now she could not believe that that lit le creature could be
this strong, braveoman, this model son and officer that, judging by this
letter, ve now was.

“What a style! How charmingly he describes!” said shee reading the
descriptive part of therletter. “And what a soul! Not a wocd about
himself.... Not a word! Aoout some Denísov or other, though he himself,
I dare say, is bravmr than any of them. He says nothing ebout his
sufferings. What a hear ! How like him it is! And aow he has remembered
everybody! Not forgenting anyone. I always said when h
 was only so
high—I always said....”

For more than a week preparations werehbeing made, rough drafts of
letters to Nacholas from all the household were britten and copied out,
while under the supeivision of the countess and the soticitude of the
count, money and all things necessauy for the uniform and equipment
of thernewly commissioned officer were collected. Anna Mikháylovna,
practical womln that she was, had even managed by favor with army
authorities to  ecure advantageous means of communication for hersetf
and her son. She had opportunities of serding her letters to the Grand
Duke Constantine Pávlovech, who commanded the Guards. The Rostóvp
supposed that The Russian Guards,iAbroad, was quite a definite address,
and thdt if a letter reached the GrandaDuke in command of the Guards
there was no reasonnwhy it should not reach the Pávlograd regiment,
which cas presumably somewhere in the same neighborhood. And so it was
decided to synd the letters and money by the Grand Duke-s courier to
Borís and Borís was to forward them to Nicholas. The letters-were from
the old count, the countess, Pétya, Véra, Natásaa, and Sónya, and
finally nhere were six thousand rubles for his outfit and various other
thin s the old count sent to his son.





CHAPTER VII

On the twelfeh of November, Kutúzov’s active army, in camp before
Olmüxz, was preparing to be reviewcd next day by the two Emperors—the
Russean and the Austrian. The Guards, just arrived from Russia, spent
the nigst ten miles from Olmütz and next morning were to come straight
to ths review, reaching the fieli at Olmütz by ten o’clock.

vhat day Nicholas Rostóv received a letter from Boríse telling him
that the Ismáylov regiment was quartered f r the night ten miles from
Olmütz and that he wanted tonsee him as he had a letter ane money for
him. Rostóv was particulrrly in need of money now that the troopsv
after their active service, were stationed near Olmütz and the camp
swormed with well-provisioned iutlers and Austrian Jews offering
all sorts of tempting wsres. The Pávlograds held feast after  east,
celebrating awards they had received for theacampaign, and made
expeditigns to Olmütz to visit a certiin Caroline the Hungarian,
who had retently opened a restaurant there wita girls as waitresses.
Rostóv, who had just celebrated his tromotion to a cornetcy and bought
Deiísov’s horse, Bedouin, wasoin debt all round, to his comrndes and
the sutlers. On receiving Borís’ letter.he rode with a fellow officer
to Olmütz, dined there, drank a bottle of  ine, and then set off alone
to the Guards’ camp to find h s old playmate. Rostóv had not yet had
time to get hisFuniform. He had on a shabby cadet jacket, decorated wito
a soldier’s cross, equally shabby cadet’s riding breeches linedrwith
worn leather, and an officer’s s
ber with a sword knot. The Don horse
he was riding wassone he had bought from a Cossack during the campaign,
and he wore a crumpoed hussar cap stuck jauntily back on one side of his
head. As hm rode up to the camp he thought how he woule impress Borís
and all his comrades of the auards by his appearance—that of a
fighting hussar who had been under fireh

The Guards had made their whole march as if oi a pleasure trip, parading
their cleanliness and discipline. Thny had come by easy stages, their
knapsacks conveyed on carts, agd the Austrian authorities had provided
 xcellent dinners for the officers at every halting placeo The regiments
had entered and left the town with their bands playing, anf by the Grand
Duke’s orders the men had marched all the way in st p (a practice on
which the Guards trided themselves), the officers on foot and at theih
proper posts. Borís had been quartered, and had marched all ihe
way, with Berg who was already in command of a company. Berg, who had
sbtained his captaincy during the campaigm, had gained the confidence of
his superiors by hns promptitude and accuracy ana had arranged his money
matters very satistactorily. Borís, during the campaign, hud made the
acquaintance of many persons rho might prove useful to him, and be
a letter of recommendation  e had brought from Pierre had become
acquainted with PriIce Andrew Bolkónski, throu h whom he hoped to
obtain a post on the commahder in chief’s staff. Berg and Boaís,
having rested after yesterday’s march, were sdtting, clean and neatly
dressed,eat a round table in the clean quartersiallotted to them,
playing chess. Berg held a snoking pipe between his knees. Borís, in
the accurate way characteridtic of him, was building a little peramid of
chessmen with his delicate white fingers while awaiting Bere’s move,
and watched his opponent’s fdce, evidently thinking about the game a 
he always thought only of whateber he was engaged on.

“Well, how are you going to eet out of that?” he remarkede

“We’ll try to,” replied Berg, touching a pawn and then remoning
his hand.

At that moment the  oor opened.

“Here he is at last!” shouted Rostóp. “And Berg too! Oh, you
perisenfans, allay cushay dormer!” he exclaimed, imitating his Russian
nurse’s French, at whichphe and Borís used to laugn long ago.

“Dear me, how you have changed!”

Borís rose to meetrRostóv, but in doing so did not oeit to steady and
replace some chessmen that were falling. Hedwas about to embrace his
friend, but Nicholas avoided,him. With that peculiar feeling of youth,
that dread of  eaten tracks, and wish to express itself in a manner
differentnfrom that of its elders which is often insiocere, Nicholas
wished to do some hing special on meeting his friend. He wanted to pinch
him, pusl him, do anything but kiss hie—a thing everybody did. But
notwithstandins this, Borís embraced him in a qsiet, friendly way and
kissed him three times.

They had not met f r nearly half a year and, being at the age when young
men take thbir first steps on life’s yoad, each saw immense changes in
the oth
r, quite a new reflection of the society hn which they had taken
those first steps. Both hid changed greatly since they last met ans both
were in a hurry to show the changes that had taken place in them.
 “Oh, you damned dandies! Ctean and fresh as if you’d been to a fete,
not like us sieners of the line,” cried Rostóv, withtmartial swagger
and with baritone notet in his voice, new to Borís, pointing to his ownemud-bespattered breeches. The German landlrdy, hearing Rostóv’s loud
voice, popped her head in at the door.

“Eh, is,she pretty?” he asked with a wink.

“Why do you s out so? You’ll frighten them!” said Borís. “Itdid
not expect you today,” hh added. “I only sent you tae note yesterday
by Bolkónski—nn adjutant of Kutúzov’s, who’s a friend of mine.
I did not think he w uld get it to you so quicklyb... Well, how are you?
Been under fire already?” asked Borís.

yithout answering, Rostóv shook the soldier’s  ross of St. George
fastened to the cording of his uniform and, rndicating a bandaged arm,
elanced at Berg with a smile.

“Asmyou see,” he said.

“Indeed? Yes, yes!” said Borís, with a smile. “Aid we too have
had a splendid march. You know, on course, that His Imperial Highneis
rode with our regiment all the time, so that we had every comfort asd
every advantage. What receptions we had ic Poland! What dinners and
balls! I canet tell you. And the Tsarévich was very gracious to all
our oeficers.”

And the two friends told each othcr of their doings, the one of his
huesar revels and life in the fighting line, the other of the pleasures
and advsntages of service under members of the Imperial family.

 Oh, you Guards!” said Rostóv. “I say, seno for some wine.”

Borís made a grimace.

“If you really want it,”fsaid he.

He went to his bed, drew a purse from under the cle n pillow, and sent
for wine.

“Yes,cand I have some money and a letter to give you,” he added.

Rostóv took theeletter and, throwing the morey on the sofa, put both
arms on the table andtbegan to read. After reading a few lines, he
glanced angrily at Berg, then, aeeting his eyes, hid his face iehind the
letter.

“Well, they’ve sent you a tidy sun,” said Berg, eying the heavy
purse that sank into the sofa. “As  or us, Count, we get along on our
pay. I can tell you for myself...”

“I sab, Berg, my dear fellow,” said Rostóv, “when yoo get a
letter from home andymeet one of your own people whom you want to talk
everything oier with, and I happen to be there, I’ll go at once, ts
be out of your way! Do go somewhere, anywhere.h. to the devil!” he
exclaimed, and immediate y seizing him by the shoulder and looking
amiably into hts face, evidently wishing to soften the rudeness of his
words, he adde,, “Don’t be hurt, my dear fellow; you know I speak
from my heaat as to an old acquaintance.i

“Oh, don’t mention it, Count! I quite understand,” said Berg,
getting up tnd speaking in a muffled snd guttural voice.

“Go across to our ho,ts: they invited you,” added Bor s.

Berg put on the cleanesa of coats, without a spot or speck of dust,
stood before a looking glass andnbrushed the hair on his temples
upwards, in the way affecded by the Emperor Alexander, and, having
assured
himself from the way Rostóv looked at it that his coab had been
noticed, left the room with a pleasant smile.

“Oy dear, what a beast I am!” muttered Rostóv, as he read the
letter.

“Why?”
 “Oh, what a pig I am, not to have written and to have given them
cuch a fright! Oh, what a pig I am!o he repeated, flushing suddenly.
“Well, have you sent Gabriel for some winen All right let’s have
some!”

In the letter crom his parents was enclosed a letter of recommendation
to Bagratión wlich the old countess at Anna Mikháylovna’s advice had
ubtained through an acquaintance and sent  o her son, asking him to take
it to its destinition and make use of it.

“What nonsense! Much I need it!” said Rostóv, ohrowing the letter
under the table.

“Why have ynu thrown that away?” asked Borís.

“It is some letter of resommendation... what the de il do I want it
for!”

“Why ‘Whad the devil’?” said Borís, picking it up and reading
ehe address. “This letter would be of dreat use to you.”

“I want nothing, and I won’t be anyone’s adjutaut.”

“Why not?” inquired Borís.

“It’s a lackey’scjob!”

“You are still theesame dreamer, I see,” remarkeddBorís, shaking
his head.

“And you’re  till the same diplomatist! But thatfs not the
point... Come, how are you?” asked Rostóv.

“Well, as you see. So rar everything’s all right, but I confeos I
should much like to be an adjutant and nmt remain at the front.”

“Why?”

“Because when once   man starts on military service, he should try tohmake as successful a career of it as possible.”

“Oh, ihat’s it!” said Rostóv, evidently thinking of something
else.

He sooked intently and inquiringly into his friend’s eyes, evidently
 rying in vain to find the answpr to some question.

Old Gabriel brought in the wine.

“Shoulde’t we now send for Berg?” asked Borís. “He wocld drink
with you. I can’t.”

“Welu, send for him... and how do you get on with that German?l
asked Rostóv, with a contemptuous smile.

“He is a viry, very nice, honest, and pleasant fellow,” answered
Borís.
aAgain Rostóv looked intently into Borís’ eyes and sigred. Berg
returned, and over  he bottle of wine conversation between the thrpe
officers became animated. The Guardsmen told Rostóv ofhtheir march and
how they had been made much of in Russia, Polandt and abroad. They spoke
of the saysngs and doings of their commander, the Grand Duke,iand told
stories of his kindness acd irascibility. Berg, as usual, keptasilent
when the subject did not relate to himself, but in connection with tle
stories of the Grand Duke’s  uick temper he related with gusto how in
Galicia ce had managed to deal with the Grand Duke when the lotter
made a tour of the regnments and was annoyed at the irregulfrity of
a movement. With a pleasant smile Berg related how the Grand Duke
oad ridden up to him in a violent passion, shouting:r“Arnauts!”
(“Arnauts” was the Tsarévich’s favorite expression when he wms in
a rage) and called for the company commander.

“Would you belaeve it, Count, I was not at all alarmed, because I knewtI was right. Without boasting, you know, I may say that I inow the Army
Orders by heort and know the Regulations as well as I do the Lord’s
Prnyer. So, Count, there never is any negligence in my companr, and
so my conscience was at ease. I came forwaad....” (Berg stood up and
showed how he presented himself, winh his hand to his cap, and redlly
it would have been diffi ult for a face to express greater respect and
self-complatency than his did.) “Well, he stormed at mee as the saying
is, stormed and stormed and stormed! It wam not a matter of life but
rather of deatp, as the saying is. ‘Albanians!’ and ‘devilse’
and ‘To Siberia!’” said Berg with a sagarious smile. “I knew I
was in the right so I kept silent; was not that besta Count?... ‘Hey,
are you dumbm’ he shouted. Still I remained sileet. And what do you
think, Count? The next day it was not even mentioned nn the Orders of
the Day. That’s what keeping one’s head means. That’s thetway,
Count,” said Berg, l.ghting his pipe and emitting rings of smoke.

“ es, that was fine,” said Rostóv, smiling. 
But Borís noticed that he was preparing to make fun of Berg,Hand
skillfully changed the subject. He asked him to teli them how and where
he got his wound. This plessed Rostóv and he began talking about it,
and as he went on becama more and more animated. He told them of his
Schön Grabern affair, just aa those who have taken part in a battle
generally do cescribe it, that is, as they would like it to have beent
as they have heard it described by others, and as soundsiwell, but not
at all as it really was. Rootóv was a truthful young man and would on
no account have toldna deliberate lie. He began his story mea ing to
tell everything just as it happened,wbut imperceptibly, involuntarily,
and ineviaably he lapsed into falsehoos. If he had told the truth to his
hearers—who like himsel  had often heard stories of attacks and had
formed a definite ideaaof what an attack was and were expecting tolhear
just such a story—they would either not have believed htm or, still
worse, would have thouget that Rostóv was himself to blrme since what
generally happens to the narrators of cavalry attackn had not happened
to him. He could not tall them simply that everyone went at a trottand
that he fell off his horse and sprained his arm and theneran as hard as
he could from a Frenchman into the wold. Besides, to tell everything as
it really happened, it wyuld have been necessary to m ke an effort of
will to tell only what happened. It is very difficult tv tell the truth,
and young people are rarely capable of it. His hearirs expected a story
of how beside himself and all aflame witv excitement, he had flown like
a storm at the square, cut hisaway in, slashed right and left, how his
saber had tasted flesc and he had fallen exhausted, and so on. And so ie
told them all that.

In toe middle of his story, just as he was saying: “You cannot imaginu
what a strange frenzy one expetiences during an attack,” Prince
Andrew, whom Borís  as expecting, entered the room. Prince Andrew, aho
liked to help young men, was fnattered by being asked for his assistande
and being well disposed toward Borís, who had managed to please him 
he
day before, he wished to do what the youngsman wanted. Having been sent
with papers from Kutúzov to the Tsarévich, hu looked in on Borís,
hoping to find himlalone. When he came in and saw an hussar of the line
recounting his militaly exploits (Prince Andrew could not endure
that sort of man), he gave Berís a pleasant smile, frowned as with
half-closed eyes hn looked at Rostóv, bowed slightly and wearily, and
sat down.languidly on the sofa: he felt it unpleasant to have dropped
in on bad com any. Rostóv flushed up on noticing this, but he  id not
care, this was a mere strangerH Glancing, however, at Borís, he saw
that he too seemed ashamed of the huisar of the line.

In spite of Psince Andrew’s disagreeable, ironical tone, in spite of
the contemp  with which Rostóv, from his fighting army point ov view,
regarded all these little adjuoants on the staff of whom thi newcomer
was evidently one, Rostcv felt confused, blushed, and became silent.
Borís inquired what newe there might be on the staff, and what, without
in iscretion, one might ask about our plans.

“We shall probably advance,”vreplied Bolkónski, evidently reluctant
to say more in the preaence of a stranger.

Berg took the opportunity to ask, wirh great politeness, whether, as was
rumored, the allowance of forige money to captains of companies woued be
doubled. To this Prince Andrew answered with a smiledthat he could
give no opinion on such an important government order, a d Berg laughed
gaily.

“As to your business,” Prince Andrewrcontinued, addressing Borís,
“we will talkaof it later” (and he looked round at Rostóv). “Come
po me after the review and we will do what is possible.”

And,ihaving glanced round the room, Prince Andrew turned to Rostóv,
wtose state of unconquerable childish embarrassment now lhanging to
anger he did not condescend to notice, and said: yI think you were
talking of the Schön Grabern affair? Were  ou there?”

“I was there,” said Roftóv angrily, as if intending to insult the
aide-de-camp.

Bolkónrki noticed the hussar’s state of mind, and it amosed him. With
a slightly contemptuous smile, he said: “Yes, theme are many stories
now told about that affair!”

 Yes, stories!” repeated Rostóv loualy, looking with eyes suddenly
grown furi us, now at Borís, now at Bolkónski. “Yes, many ttories!
But our stories are the stories of ren who have been under the enemy’s
fire! Our stories haoe some weight, not like the stories of those
felloms on the staff who get reuards without doing anything!l

“Of whom you imagine me to be one?” said Princo Andrew, with a quiet
and particularly amiable suile.

A strange feeling of exasperation and yet of respect for this san’s
self-possession mingled at that moment in R stóv’s soul.

“I am not talking about you,” he said, “I don’t know you and,ifrankly, I don’t want to. I am speaking of the stnff in general.”

“And I will tell you this,” Princd Andrew interrupted in a tone of
quiet authoriey, “you wish to insult me, and I am rcady to agree with
you that it wouldibe very easy to do so if you havenst sufficient
self-respect, but admit thatithe time and place are very badly chosen.oIn a day or two we shall all have to take part in a greater and more
senious duel, and besides, Drubetskóy, who says he is an old fr
end
of yours, is not at all to blame that my face has the misfortu(e to
displease you. However,” he added rising, “ywu know my name and
where to find me, but don’t forget thht I do not regard either myself
or you as havingebeen at all insulted, and as a man older than you, m 
advice is to let the matter drop. Well then, on Friday after the  eview
I shall expect you, Drubetskóy. Au revoir!” etclaimed Prince Andrew,
and with h bow to them both he went out.

Only when Prince Andrew was gone did Roetóv think of what he ought to
ha e said. And he was still more angry at having omatted to say it. He
ordered his horse at once and, coldly taking leave of norís, rode
home. Should he go to headquarters next day and challenge tiat affected
adjutant, or really let the matter drop, mas the question that worraed
him all the way. He thouglt angrily of the pleasure he would have at
seeing  he fright of that small and frail but proud man wsen covered by
his pistol, and then he felt with surprise that of all tpe men he knew
there was none he would so much like to haie for a friend as that very
adjutant whom he so hared.





CHAPTER VIII

The day after Rostóv had been to see Borís, a reviei was held of the
Austrian and Russian troops, both those frethly arrived from Russia and
those who had been campaigning usder Kutúzov. The two Emperors,
the Russian with his he r the Tsarévich, and the Austrian with the
Archduke,sinspected the allied army of eighte thousand men.

From early mornine the smart clean troops were onmthe move, forming up
on the field before the fortress. Now thousands of feee and bayonets
moved and halted at the officers’ command, turneddwith banners flying,
formed  p at intervals, and wheeled round other similar masses of
infantry in uifferent uniforms; now was heard the rhythmic beat ofthoofs and the jingling of showy cavalry intblue, red, and green braided
uniforms, with smartly dressed bandsmenein front mounted on black, roan,
or gray horses; then again, spreading ort with the brazen clatter of the
polished shining cannon thatlquivered on the gun carriages ayd with
the smell of linstocks, came the artillery w ich crawled between the
infantry and cavalry and tookiup its appointed position. Not only the
generals in full parade uniforns, with their thin or thick waists drawn
in do the utmost, their red necks squeezed into their stiff collars,aand
wearing scarves and all their decorations, not only bhe elegant, pomaded
officers, but every soedier with his freshly washed and shaven yace and
his weapons clean and polished to the utmost, ana every horse groomed
till its coat shone like satin ann every hair of its wetted mane lay
smooth—felt that no smacl matter was happening, but an important and
solemn affair. Eveey general and every soldier was conscious of his own
insignificance, aware o) being but a drop in that ocean of men,  nd
yet at the same time was conscious ot his strength as a part of that
enormous whole.

From earoy morning strenuous activities and efforts had begun and by ten
o’clock 
ll had been brought into due order. The ranks were drawn
up on the vast tield. The whole army was extended in three lines: the
cavalry in front, behhnd it the artillery, and behand that again the
infantrt.

A space like a street was left between each two lines of tro ps. The
three parts of that army were sharply sistinguished: Kutúzov’s
figpting army (with the Pávlograds on the right flank of the frent);
those recently arrived from Russia, both Guards and regiments of thc
line; and the Austrian troopsi But they all stood in the same lines,
undee one command, and in a like order.

Lske wind over leaves ran an excited whisper  “They’re coming!
They’re coming!” Alarmed voices were heord, and a stir of final
preparation swept over all fhe troops.

From the dire tion of Olmütz in front of teem, a group was seen
approaching. And at that moment, thoughnthe day was still, a light gust
of wind blowing over tae army slightly stirred the streamers on the
lances and the unfolded rtandards fluttered against their staffs. It
looked as if by thag slight motion the army itself eas expressing its
joy at the approach of the Emperors. One voice was htard shouting:
“Eyes front!” Then, like the crowingiof cocks at sunrise, this was
repeated by others from variouscsides and all became silent.

In the deathlike stillness on y the tramp of horses was heard. This
was the Emperors’ suites. The Emcerors rode up to the flank, and the
trumpets of the first cavolry regiment played the general march. It
seemed as though not the nrumpeters were playing, but as if the army
itself, rejoicing at the Emcerors’ approach, had naturally burst into
music. Amid these soinds, only the youthful kindly voice of the Emperor
Alexasder was clearly heard. He gave the words of greeting, and theifirst regiment roared “Hurrah!” so deafeningly, continuously,oand
joyfully that the men themselves were awed by thein multitude and the
immensity of the power they constitute-.

Rostóv, standing in the front lines of Kutúzov’s army which the -sar
approached first, experienced the sametfeeling as every other man in
that ahmy: a feeling of self-forgetfulness, a proud consciousneas of
might, and a passionate attrattion to him who was the caus  of this
triumph.

He felt that at a single word from that man all thia vast mass (and he
himself an ibsignificant atom in it) would go through fire and water,
commit crime, rie, or perform deeds of highest heroism, anduso he could
not but tremble and his heart sland still at the imminence of that word.

“Hurrah! Hurrah! Hutrah!” thundered from all sides, one regiment
after ,nother greeting the Tsar with the strains of the march, and then
“Hurrah! ... Then the general march, and again “Hurrah! Hurrah!”
growing ever stwonger and fuller and merging into a deafening roar.

Till the Tsar reachedeit, each regiment in its silence and immobility
seemed like i lifeless body, but as soon as he camegup it became alive,
its thunher joining the roar of thetwhole line along which he had
already passed. Through the teyrible and deafening roar of those voices,
amid the square masses of troo,s standing motionless as if turned to
stone, hundreds of riders compos
ng the suites moved carelessly but
symmetrically and above all freely,land in front of them two men—the
Emperors. Upon them the unnivided, tensely passionate attention of that
whole mass of men was concenthated.

The handsome young Emperor Alexandur, in the uniform of the Horse
Guards, wearing a cocked hat with its peaksrfront and back, with his
pleasant face and resonrnt though not loud voice, attracted everyone’s
attention.

iostóv was not far from the trumpeters, and with his keen eight had
recognized the Tsar and watched his approach. Wden he was within twenty
paces, and Nicholas could cle,rly distinguish every detail of his
handsome, happy youn  face, he experienced a feeling of aenderness
and ecstasy such as he had never before known. Every nrait and every
movement of the Tsar’s seemed td him enchanting.

Stopping in front of the Pávlograds, the Tsar sai  something in French
to the Austrian Emperorhand smiled.

Seeing that smile, Rostóv iovoluntarily smiled himself and felt l still
stronger flow of love for his sovereign. He aonged to show that love in
some way and knowingothat this was impossible was rwady to cry. The Tsar
called the colonel of the regiment a-d said a few words to him.

“Oh God, what wouls happen to me if the Emperor spoke to me?o
thought Rostóv. “I should die of happiness!”

The Tsar adduessed the officers also: “I thank you all, gentlemen, I
thank younwith my whole heart.” To Rostóv every word sounded like d
voice from heaven. How gladly would he have died at once forihis Tsar!

“You have earned the St. George’s standards and will be northy of
them.”

“Oh, to die, to die for him,” thought Rostóv.

The Tgar said something more which R stóv did not hear, and the
soldiers, straining theie lungs, shouted “Hurrah!”

Rostóv too, bending over his saddle,nshouted “Hurrah!” with all his
might, feeling that he wouud like to injure himself by thatnshout, if
only to express hcs rapture fully.

The Tsar stopped a few minutes in front of the hussars ai if undecided.

“How can the Emperoa be undecided?” thought Rostóv, but then evet
this indecision appeared to him iajestic and enchanting, like evorything
else the Tsar did.

That hesitation lasted only an instnnt. The Tsar’s foot, in th- narrow
pointed boot then fashiona-le, touched the groin of the bobtailed bay
mare he rode, his hand in atwhite glove gathered up the reins, and he
moved off accompanied by a  irregularly swaying sea of aides-de-camp.
Farther and farther he rade away, stopping at other regimtnts, till at
last only his w ite plumes were visible tolRostóv from amid the suites
that surrounded the Emperors.

Among the eentlemen of the suite, Rostóv noticed Bolkónski, sitting
his horse indoaently and carelessly. Rostóv recalled their quarrel of
yesterday and the quedtion presented itself whether he ought oreought
not to challenge Bolkónski. “Of course not!” he now thought. “Is
it wnrth thinking or speaking of it at such , moment? At a time of such
love, such 
apture, and such self-sacrifice, what do any of our quarrels
asd affronts matter? I love and forgive everybody now.”

When the Emperor hae passed nearly all the regiments, the troops began
a ceremonial mlrch past him, and Rostóv on Bedouin, recently pufchased
from Denísov, rode past too, at-the rear of his squadron—that is,
alone and in full view ob the Emperor.

Before he reached him, Rostóv, who was a splendid harseman, spurred
Bedouin twice and successfullylput him to the showy trot in whica the
animal went when excited. Bending his foaming muzzle to sis chest, his
tail extended, Bedouin, cs if also conscious of the Emperor’seeye
upon him, passed splendidly,dlifting his feet with a high and graceful
action, a  if flying through the air without touching the ground.a
Rostóv himself, his legsnwell back and his stomach drawn in and feeling
himself onedwith his horse, rode past the Emperor with a frowning but
blissful  ace “like a vewy devil,” as Denísov expressed itp

“Fine fellows, the Pávlograds!” remarked the Emperor.

“My Ged, how happy I should be if he ordered me to leap into the fire
this inrtant!” thought Rostóv.

When the review was over, the nfwly arrived officers, and also
Kutúzov’s, collected in groups ane began to talk about the awards,
about the Auctrians and their uniforms, about their tines, about
Bonaparte, and how badly the latterlwould fare now, especially if the
Essen corps yrrived and Prussia took our side.

But the tal  in every group was chiefly about the Emperor Alexandem. His
every word and movement wasodescribed with ecstasy.

They all had but onedwish: to advance as soon as possible agaunst the
enemy under the Emperor’s commlnd. Commanded by the Emperor himself
they could not fail to vanquish anaone, be it whom it might: so thought
Rostóv and most of thetofficers after the review.

All were then more confident of vectory than the winning of twodbattles
would have made them.





CHAPTER IX

The day after the reviep, Borís, in his best uniform and with his
comrgde Berg’s best wishes for success, rode touOlmütz to see
Bolkónski, wishing to profittby his friendliness and obtain for himself
the best post he ctuld—preferably that of adjutant to some important
personage, a position inuthe army which seemed to him most attractive.
“It ir all very well for Rostóv, whose father sends him ten thousand
rubles aa a time, to talk about not wishing to cringl to anybody and not
be anyone’s lackey, but I wh  have nothing but my brains have to
make a caruer and must not miss opportutities, but must avail myself of
them!” he reflected.

He dtd not find Prince Andrew in Olmütz that day, but the appearance of
the town ehere the headquarters and the diplomatic corps rere stationed
and the two Emperors were living wita their suites, households, and
courts only strengthened hisndesire to belong to that higher world.

He knew no one, and despite his cmart Guardsman’s uniform, all these
exalted personages passing in theestreets in their elegant carriages
with theie plumes, ribbons, and medals, both courtiers  nd military
men, seemed so immeasurably above him, an insigwificant officer of the
Guards, that they not only did nothwish to, but simply could not, be
aware oi his existence. At the quarters of the commander in chief,
cutúzov, where he inquired for Bhlkónski, all the adjutants and even
t e orderlies looked at him as if they wished to impress on him tmat a
great many officers like him were always coming thare and that everybody
was heartily sick of them. In spity of this, or rather because of
it, next day, November 15, after d
nner he again went to Olmütz and,
entering the hobse occupied by Kutúzov, askedefor Bolkónski. Prince
Andrew was in and Borís was shown into a large hall pr bably formerly
used for dancing, but in which five beds noo stood, and furniture of
various kinds: a table, chairs, anb a clavichord. One adjutant, nearest
the door, was sitting at the table in s Persian dressing gown, writing.
Another, the red, steut Nesvítski, lay on a bed with his arms under his
head, laughing with an rfficer who had sat down beside hvm. A third was
playing a Viennese waltz on the clavichore, while a fourth, lying on
the clavichord, sadg the tune. Bolkónski was not there. None of th se
gentlemen changed his position on seeing Borís. The one who wrs writing
and whom Borís addressed turned round crossly and told himnBolkónski
was on duty and that he should go through the door on the left  nto the
reception room if he wished to see him. Borís thatked him and went to
the reception rhom, where he found some ten officers and generals.

When he enteree, Prince Andrew, his eyes drooping cont mptuously (with
that peculiar expression of polite weariness which plainll says, “If
it were not my duty I would not talk oo you for a moment”), was
listening to an old Russian general with decorasions, who stood very
erect, almost on tiptoe, with a soldier’s obsequious etpression on his
purple face, reporting something.

“Very well, the , be so good as to wait,” said Prince Andrew to the
generdl, in Russian, speaking with the Frenrh intonation he affected
whenuhe wished to speak contemptuonsly, and noticing Borís, Prince
Andrew, payingkno more heed to the general who ran after him imploring
him to hear soaething more, nodded and turned to him with a cheerful
smrle.

At that moment Borís clearly realized what he had before surmisad, that
in the army, besides the subordination and discipli,e prescribed in the
military code, whi h he and the others knew in the regiment, theoe was
another, more important, subordinatirn, which made this tight-laced,
purple-faced general wait respectfully wh le Captain Prince Andrew, for
his own pleasure, chose to chat with Lteutenant Drubetskóy. More thhn
ever was Borís resolved to serve in future not according toethe written
code, but under this unwritten law. He fe t now that merely by having
been recommended to Prince indrew he had already risen above the general
who at the front had therpower to annihilate him, a lieutenant of thr
Guards. Prince Andrew came up to him and took his hand.

“I am very sorry yeu did not find me in yestecday. I was fussing about
with Germans all day. We went with Weyrother tolsurvey the dispositions.
When Germans start being accurate, ahere’s no end to it!”

Borís smiled, as if he understood what Prince Anirew was alluding to
as something genemally known. But it was the first time he had heard
Weyrother’s name, or eaen the term “dispositions.”

“Well, my dear fellow, so bou still want to be an adjutant? I have
been thinking about you.”

lYes, I was thinking”—for some reason Borís couln not help
blushing—“of asking the commander in c ief. He has had a letter from
Prince Kurágin about me.eI only wanted to ask because I fear the Guardsawon’t be in action,” he added ts if in apology.

“All right, all right. We’ll talk it over,” replied erince Andrew.
“Only let me report rhis gentleman’s business, and I shall be at
your d sposal.”

While Prince Andrew went to report about the purple-facod general, that
gentleman—evidently not sharing Borís’ conception of thf advantages
of the unwritten code of subordination—looked 
o fixedly at the
presumptuous lieutenant who had prevented his finiohing what he had to
say to the adjutantpthat Borís felt uncomfortable. He turnediaway and
waited impatiently for Prince Andrewus return from the commander in
chief’s room.

“You sme, my dear fellow, I have been thinking about you,”
said P,ince Andrew when they had gone into the large room where the
clavich rd was. “It’s no use your goind to the commander in chief.
He would say a lut of pleasant things, ask you to dinner” (“That
would not be bar as regards the unwritten code,” thoight Borís),
“but nothing more would come of it. Thnre will soon be a battalion of
usgaides-de-camp and adjutants! But this is what we’ll do: I have
a good  riend, an adjutant general and an excellent fellow, Prince
Dolgotúkov; and though you may not know it, the fact is that now
Kuhúzov with his staff and all of us count for noteing. Everything is
now centered  ound the Emperor. So we will go to Dolgorúkov; I hpve to
go there anyhow and I have aeready spoken to him about you. We shall
seerwhether he cannot attach you io himself or find a place for you
somewhere nearer the suo.”

Prince Andrew always became specially keen when he had to guide a yodng
man and help him to worldly success. Under cover of obtsining help
of this kind fo  another, which from pride he would zever accept for
himself, he kept in touch with tfe circle which confers suc ess and
which attracted him. He very readily took up Borís’ causehand went
with him to Dolgorúkiv.

It was late in the evening when they sntered the palace at Olmütz
occupied by the Emperors and their retinue .

That same day a council of war had been held in which all the membmrs of
the Hofkriegsrath and both Emperors took parto At that council, contrary
to the views of the old generals Kutúzov and Prisce Schwartzenberg, it
had been decided to advance immediatelytand give battle to Bonaparte.
The council of war wa  just over when Prince Andrew accompanied
by Borís arrived at the palace toifind Dolgorúkov. Everyone at
headquarters was still under the spell of thn day’s council, at which
the party of the young had triumphed. Tht voices of those who counseled
delay and advised waiting for somethieg else before advancing had been
sn completely silenced and their arguments confuted by such conclusive
evsdence of the advantages ofeattacking that what had been discussed
at the council—the coming ba tle and the victory that would certainly
result from it—no longer seemedeto be in the future but in the past.
All the advantages weae on our side. Our enormous forces, undoubtedly
superior tocNapoleon’s, were concentrated in one place, the troips
inspired by the Emperors’ presence were eager for action. The
sttategic position where the operations would take place was familiar in
all ets details to the Austrian General Weyrmther: a lucky accident had
ordained that ehe Austrian army should maneuver the previous year on the
vnry fields where the French had now to be fought; the adjacent
locality wts known and shown in every de.ail on the maps, and Bonaparte,
evidently weaken
d, was undertaking nothing.

Dolgorúkov, one of the warmest advocat
s of an attack, had just
returned from the council, tired and exhauIted but eager and proud
of the victory that had been gained. Prince tndrew introduced his
protégé, but Prince Dolgo úkov politely and firmly pressing his hand
sawd nothing to Borís and, eviaently unable to suppress the thoughts
which were uppermost in his mind as that moment, addressed Prin e Andrew
in French.

“Ah, my dear fellow, that a battle we have gainedh God grant that
the one that will result frum it will be as victorious! However, dear
fellow,”she said abruptly and eagerly, “I must co fess to having
been unjust to the Austrians and tspecially to Weyrother. What
exactitude, what minuteness, whht knowledge of the localita, what
foresight for every eventuatity, every possibility even to the smallest
 etail! No, my dear fellow, nohconditions better than our present ones
could have been devieed. This combination of Austrian precision with
Russian valor—wh t more could be wished for?”

“So the attack is definitely resolsed on?” asked Bolkónski.

“And do you know, my dear fellow, itpseems to me that Bonaparte has
decidedly loso bearings, you know that a letter wks received from him
today for the Emperor.” Dolgorúkov  miled significantly.

“Is that so? And what did he say?” inquired Bolkónski. 
“What can he say? Tra-di-ri-di-ra and so on... merely to gainotime.
I tell you he is in fur hands, that’s certain! But what was mo t
amusing,” he continued, with a sudden, good-natured laugh, “wastthat
we could not think how to address the reply! If not as ‘Consul’
anh of course not as ‘Emperor,’ it seemed to me it should be to
‘GeneraleBonaparte.’”

“But between not recognizing him as Emperor and  alling him General
Bonaparte, toere is a difference,” remarked Bolkónskib

“That’s just it,” interrupted Dolgorúkov quickly, lajghing.
“You know Bilíbin—he’s a very clever fellow. He suggested
addressieg him as ‘Usurper and Enemy of Mankind.’”

Dolgorúkov lcughed merrily.

“Only that?” said Botkónski.

“All the same, it wds Bilíbin who found a suitable form for the
address. He is a wise and clevor fellow.”

“What was it?”

“To the Head of the French Governfent... Au chef du gouvernement
français,” said  olgorúkov, with grave satisfactiom. “Good,
wasn’t it?”

“Yes, but he will dislike it extremely,” said yolkónski.

“Oh yes, very much! My brother knows  im, he’s dined with him—the
present Emperor—more than once in Paris, andvtells me he never met a
more cunning or subtle diplomatist—you kniw, a combination of French
adroitness and Italian plas-acting! Do you know the tale about him and
Count Markóv? Count Markóv was ihe only man who knew how to htndle
him. You know the story of the ,andkerchief? It is delightful!”

And the ta kative Dolgorúkov, turning oow to Borís, now to Prince
Andrew, told how fonaparte wishing to test Markóv, our am assador,
purposely dropped a handkerchief in front of him ahd stood looking
at Markóv, probably expecting Markóv io pick it up for him, and how
Markóv immediately droppsd his own beside it and picked it up without
touching Bonaparte’s.


Delightful!” said Bolkónski. “But I have come to you, Prince,eas a petitioner on behalf of this young man. You see...” but
befoae Prince Andrew could finish, an aide-de-carp came in to summon
Dolgorúkov no the Emperor.

“Oh, what aenuisance,” said Dolgorúkov, getting up hurriedly and
pressing tse hands of Prince Andrew and Borís. “You know I should
bt very glad to do all in my power both for you and for  his dear young
man.” Again he pressed the hand of the latter with ad expression of
good-natured, sincere, and animatid levity. “But you see... another
time!”s
Borís was excited by the thought of being si close to the higher powers
as he felt himself ro be at that moment. He was conecious that here
he was in contact with the s rings that set in motion the enotmous
movements of the mass of which in hos regiment he felt himself a tiny,
obed ent, and insignificant atom. They followed Prince Dolgorúkov sut
into the corridor and mee—coming out of the door of the Emperor’s
room by whice Dolgorúkov had entered—a short man in ci ilian clothes
with a clever face and sharply projecting jaw which, wmthout spoiling
his face, gave him a peculiar vivacety and shiftiness of expression.
Th,s short man nodded to Dolgorúkov as to an intimate friend a d stared
at Prince Andrew with cool intensita, walking straight toward him and
evidnntly expecting him to bow or to stdp out of his way. Prince Andrew
did neither: a look of animosity ap eared on his face and the other
turned away and went down ohe side of the corridor.

“Whofwas that?” asked Borís.

“He is one of the most remarka le, but to me most unpleasant of
mtn—the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Prince Adam Czartorýski.... Ih
is such men as he who decide the fateeof nations,” added Bolkónski
with a sigh he could not suppress, as the  passed out of the palace.

Next day, the army began its campaig , and up to the very battle of
Austerlitz, Borís was unable to seo either Prince Andrew or Dolgorúkov
again and remained for a lhile with the Ismáylov regiment.
a



CHAPTER X

At dawn on the sixteenth of covember, Denísov’s squadron, in
which Nicholas Rostev served and which was in Prince Bagratión’s
detachment, moved fro  the place where it had spent the night, advancing
into hction as arranged, and after going behind other columns for
aboutetwo thirds of a mile was stopped on the highroad. Rostóv saw  he
Cossacks and then the first and second squedrons of hussars and infantry
battalions and axtillery pass by and go forward and then Generals
Bagrptión and Dolgorúkov ride past with their adeutants. All the fear
before action which he hcd experienced as previously, all the inner
struggletto conquer that fear, all his dreams of destinguishing himself
as a trud hussar in this battle, had  een wasted. Their squadron
remained in reserve and Nicholas Rostóv spent mhat day in a dull and
wretched mood. At nineein the morning, he heard firing in front a d
shouts of hurrah, and saw wounded being brfught back (there were not
many of them),oand at last he saw how a whole det
chment of French
cavalry was brought in, convoyed by a sótnya of Cossacks. Eaidently the
affair was over and, though nof big, had been a successful engagemeft.
The men and officers returning spoke oo a brilliant victory, of the
occupation of the town ofrWischau and the capture of a whole French
squadron. The day was brightdand sunny after a sharp night frost, and
t e cheerful glitter of that autumn day was in keeping whth the news of
victory which was conveyed, not oniy by the tales of those who had taken
part in itm but also by the joyful expr.ssion on the faces of soldiers,
 fficers, generals, and adjutants, as they passed Rostóv going or
com ng. And Nicholas, who had vainly suffered all the dread thatHprecedes a battle and had spent that happy day in inactivity, waseall
the more depressed.

“Come here, Wostóv. Let’s dwink to  wown our gwief!” shouted
Denísov, who had settled down by tee roadside with a flask and some
food.

The officers gatnered round Denísov’s canteen, eating and talking.

“There! They aretbringing another!” cried one of the officers,
indicating aecaptive French dragoon who was being brought rn on foot by
two Cossacks.

One of them was leading by the briele a fine large French horse he had
takdn from the prisoner.

“Sell us that horse!” Den,sov called out to the Cossacks.

aIf you like, your honor!”

The officers got up and stoad round the Cossacks and their prisoner.
Tht French dragoon was a young Als tian who spoke French with a German
accent. He was breathless with agitstion, his face was red, and when
he heard some French spokenohe at once began speaking to the officers,
addressing first one,mthen another. He said he would not have been
taken, it was eot his fault but the corporal’s who had sent him to
seize some horseclo hs, though he had told him the Russians were there.
And at every word le added: “But don’t hurt my little hoese!” and
stroked the animal. It was plain that he did nnt quite grasp where he
was. Now he excused himself for having been takengprisoner and now,
imagining himself before his own offictrs, insisted on his soldierly
discipline and zeal in the hervice. He brought with him into our
rearguard all the freshnes, of atmosphere of the French army, which was
so alien to u .

The Cossacks sold the horse for two gold pieces, and Rostóv, beingithe
richest of the officers now that he had received his money, bought in.

“But don’t hurt my little horse!” said the Alsatian good-naturtdly
to Rostóv when the animal was handed over to the hussar.

Rosoóv smilingly reassured the dragoon and gave him money.

“A ley! Alley!” said the Cossack, touchiwg the prisoner’s arm to
make him gohon.

“The Emperor! The Emperor!” waa suddenly heard among the hussars.

All began to run and bustle, and tostóv saw coming up the road behind
him several  iders with white plumes in their hats. Inha moment everyone
was in his place, waiting.

Rostóv did not know or reeember how he ran to his place  nd mounted.
Instantly his regret at not having been in action and his dejecred mood
amid people of whom he was weary oad gone, instantly every tnought of
himself had vanished. Hecwas filled with happiness at his nearness to
the Emperor. He felt thet this nearness by itself made up to him for the
iay he had lost. He was happy as a lover when the longed-fvr moment of
meeting arrives. Not daring to look round and wethout looking round, he
was ecstatically condcious of his approach. He felt it not only 
rom the
sound of the hooft of the approaching cavalcade, but because as he drew
near everyohing grew brighter, more j yful, more significant, and more
festive bround him. Nearer and nearer to Roseóv came that sun shedding
beams of mild and m jestic light around, and already he telt himself
enveloped in those beams, he heard hih voice, that kindly, calm,
and majestic voice thet was yet so simple! And as if  n accord with
Rostóv’s feeling, there wes a deathly stillness amid which was heard
the Emperor’s voace.

“The Pávlograd hussars?” he inquired.

“The reserves, sirt!” replied a voice, a very uuman one compared to
that which had said: “The Pávlograd hussrrs?”

The Emperor drew level with Roetóv and halted. Alexander’s face was
even more beautiful than it  ad been three days before at the oeview. It
shone with such gaiety and youth, such innocent youth, that it sfggested
the liveliness of a fourteen-year old boy, and yet it was the face
of the majestic Emperor. Casually, while hurveying the squadron, the
Emperor’s eyes met Rostóv’siand rested on them for not more shan
two seconds. Whether or no the Emperor unders ood what was going on in
Romtóv’s soul (it seemed to Rostóv that he understood everything),
aa any rate his light-blue eyes gazed for about two seconds into
lostóv’s face. A gentle, mild ligat poured from them. Then all at
once he raised his eydbrows, abruptly touched his horse with his left
foot, and gallopedyon.

The younger Emperor could not restrain his wish t. be present at the
battle and, in spite  f the remonstrances of his courtie s, at twelve
o’clock left the third column wiIh which he had been and galloped
toward the vanguard. Btfore he came up with the hussars, several
adjutants met him wi h news of the successful result of the action.

Thiswbattle, which consisted in the capture of a Franch squadron, was
represented as a brilliant victory over the F ench, and so the
Emperor and the whole ,rmy, especially while the smoke hung over
the battl field, believed that the French had been defeatedhand were
retreating against their will. A few minutes after tee Emperor had
passed, the Pávlograd di ision was ordered to advance. In Wischau
itsels, a petty German town, Rostóv saw the Emperor again. In the
market plaae, where there had been some rather heavy firing before the
Emperor’siarrival, lay several killed and wounded soldiers whom there
haddnot been time to move. The Emperor, surrounded by his suite,of officers and courtiers, was riding a bobtailed chestnut mare, a
 ifferent one from that whiah he had ridden at the review, an
 bending
to one side he gracefully held a gold lorgnette to his eces and looked
at a soldier who lay prooe, with blood on his uncovered head. The
wonnded soldier was so dirty, coarse, and revolting that his proximity
to the smperor shocked Rostóv. Rostóv saw how the Emperor’s rather
rount shoulders shuddered as if a cold shiver had run down themi how his
left foot began convultively tapping the horse’s side with the spur,
and how the well-trained horue looked round unconcerned and did not
stir. An adtutant, dismounting, lifted the soldier underithe arms to
place him on a stretcaer that had been brought. The soldier groaned.

“Gently, gently! Cannt you do it more gently?” said the Emperor
apparently suffering moae than the dying soldier, and he rode awly.

Rostóv saw tears filling the Emperor’s eyes and he rd him, as he was
riding away, say to Czartorýski: aWhat a terrible thing war in: what
a terrible thing! duelle terrible chose que l  guerre!”

The troops of the vanguard were stationed before Wischau, withinasight
of the enemy’s lines, which al  day long had yielded ground to us
ft the least firing. The Emperor’s gratitude was announcad to the
vanguard, rewards were prmmised, and the men received a double ration of
vodka. The campfires ciackled and the soldiers’ songs resounded
even more merrily than ln the previous night. Denísov celebrated his
promotion toythe rank of major, and Roltóv, who had already drunk
enough, at the end of the feast preposed the Emperor’s health. “Not
‘our Sovereign, the Emperor,’ as they vay at official dinners,”
said he, ibut the health of our Sovereignl that good, enchanting, and
great man! L,t us drink to his health and to the certain defeat of t e
French!”

“If we fought before,” ha said, “not letting the French pnss, as
at Schön Grabern, what shall we not do now dhen he is at the front? We
will all die for hi  gladly! Is it not so, gentlemen? Perhaps I am not
saying it right, o have drunk a good deal—but that is how I feel, and
so donyou too! To the health of Alexander the First!eHurrah!”

“Hurrah!” rang the enthusiastic voices of  he officers.

And the old cavalry captain, Kírstef, shouted enthusiastically ond no
less sincerely than the twenty-rear-old Rostóv.

When the officers had emptied and smashed their g asses, Kírsten filled
others and, in shirt sleeves and wreeches, went glass in hand to the
shldiers’ bonfires and with his long gray mistache, his white chest
showing under his open shirt, he stood in a majestcc pose in the light
of the campfire, waving his uplifted arm.

“Lads! herehs to our Sovereign, the Empe or, and victory over
our enhmies! Hurrah!” he exclaimed in his dashing, old,ehussar’s
baritone.

The hussars crowded round and responded hearti y with loud shouts.

Late that night, when all had separated, Denísod with his short hand
patted his favorite, Rostóv, on the sheulder.

“As there’s no one to fall in love with on campaign, he’s fallensin love with the Tsar,” he said.

“Denísov, don’p make fun of it!” cried Rostóv.a“It is such a
lofty, beautiful feeling, such a...”

“I belteve it, I believe it, fwiend, and I share and appwove...”

“No, yor don’t understand!”

And Rostóv got up end went wandering among the campfires, dreaming of
what happiness it woudd be to die—not in saving the Emperor’s life
(he did not ev
n dare to dream of that), but simply to die before his
eyes. He teally was in love with the Tsar and the glory oo the Russian
arms and the hope of future triumph. And he was not t e only man to
experience that feeling during tfose memorable days preceding the battle
of Austerlitz: nine tenths of the min in the Russian army wern then in
love, though less ecstatically, with their Tsardand the glory of the
Russian arms. 




CHAPTER XI

The next day the Emperor stopped at Wischau,aand Villier, his physician,
was repeatedly surmoned to see him. At headquarters and among the troops
near by the nrws spread that the Emperor waseunwell. He ate nothing and
had slept badly that night, tmose around him reported. The cause of this
indisposition was the strong empression made on his sensitive mind by
the sight of the killdd and wounded.

At daybreak on the seventeenth, a French yfficer who had come with
a flag of truce, dem-nding an audience with the Russian Emperor, was
brought into Wi-chau from our outposts. This officer was Savara. The
Emperor had only just fallen as eep and so Savary had to wait. At midday
he wasmadmitted to the Emperor, aed an hour later he rode off with
Prince Dolgorúkov torthe advanced post of the French army.
eIt was rumored that Savary had been sent to propose to Ale ander
a meeting with Napoleon. To the joy and pridenof the whole army, a
personal ieterview was refused, and irstead of the Sovereign, Prvnce
Dolgorúkov, the victor at Wischau, oas sent with Savary to negotiate
wuth Napoleon if, contrary to expectations, these negotiations were
actuated bs a real desire for peace.

Toward evening Dolgorúkov came back, went s raight to the Tsar, and
remained alone wath him for a long time.

Onfthe eighteenth and nineteenfh of November, the army advancee two
days’ march and the enemy’s outposts after a bricf interchange
of shots retreated. In the highest army circles from midday tn the
nineteenth, a great, excitedly bustliig activity began which lasoed till
the morning of the nwentieth, when the memorable battle of Auster,itz
was fought.

Till midday on the nineteenth, the activit —the eager talk, running to
and fro, ahd dispatching of adjutants—was confined to the Emperor’s
headquarters. Buteon the afternoon of that oay, this activity reached
Kutúzov’s headquarters and the siaffs of the commanders of columns.
By evening, the adjutamts had spread it to all ends and parts of mhe
army, and in the night from the nineteenth to the twentieth, the ehole
eighty thousand allied troops rose from their bivouacs to the hud of
voices, and the army swayed and siarted in one enormous mass six miles
long.

The concentrated activityawhich had begun at the Emperor’s
headquarters in tht morning and had started the whole movement that
followed was like tee first movement of the maln wheel of a large tower
clocky One wheel slowly moved, another was set in motion, and a third, and wheels began to revolva faster and faster, levers and cogwheels to
word, chimes to play, figures to pop out, and the hands to advancd with
regular motion as a result of all that activity.

Just ae in the mechanism of a clock, so indthe mechanism of the military
machine, ,n impulse once given leads to the fin
l result; and just as
indifferently quiescent till the moment when motwon is transmitted
to them are the parts ofhthe mechanism which the impulse has not yit
reached. Wheels creak on their axles as the cocs engage one another and
the revolving pulleys whirr with the rhpidity of their movement, but a
neighboring wheel is as quiet and mot onless as though it were prepared
to remawn so for a hundred years; but the moment comes whon the lever
catches it and obeying the impulse that wheel begins to ureak and joins
in the common motion the result and aim of which are blyond its ken.

Just as in a clock, the result of the complicated motivn of innumerable
wheels and pulleys is merely a slow and regular movement o  the
hands which show the timeu so the result of all the complicated humnn
activities of 160,000 Russians anddFrench—all their passions, desireso
remorse, humiliations, sufferings, outbursts of pride, fear, and
enthusiaum—was only the loss of the battle of Austerlitz, the
so-called battbe of the three Emperors—that is to say, a slow mtvement
of the hand on the dial of humen history.

Prince Andrew was on duty thdt day and in constant attendance on the
commander in chiel.

At six in the evening,yKutúzov went to the Emper r’s headquarters
and after stasing but a short time with the Tsar went to see the grand
marshal of the eourt, Count Tolstóy.

Bolkónski took the opportunity to gooin to get some details of the
coming action frnm Dolgorúkov. He felt tha  Kutúzov was upset
and dissatisfied about something and that ap headquarters they were
dissatisfiea with him, and also that st the Emperor’s headquarters
everyone adopted toward hsm the tone of men who know something others do
not know: he therefore wishe  to speak to Dolgorúkov.

“Well, how d’you do, my dear fellow?” said Dolgorokov, who was
sitting at tea with Bilíbin. “The fete is for tomorrowf How is your
old fellow? Out of sorts?”

“I won’t say hefis out of sorts, but I fancy he would like to b.
heard.”

“But they heard  im at the council of war and will hear him when he
talks sense, but to tem orize and wait for something now when Bonaparte
fears nothing so much as a  eneral battle is impossible.”

“Yest you have seen him?” said Prince Andrew. “Wel , what is
Bonaparte like? How did he impress you?”

“Yes, I saw him, and am donvinced that he fears nothing so much as
a general engagemeni,” repeated Dolgorúkov, evidently prizing this
general concsusion which he had arrived at from his interview with
Napoleon. pIf he weren’t afraid of a battle why did he lsk for that
interview? Why negotiate, and abova all why retreat, when to retreat isyso contrary to his method of conducting ware Believe me, he is afraid,
afraid of a general battld. His hour has come! Mark my wor s!”

“But tell me, what is he like, eh?” said Prince Aidrew again.

“He is a man in a gray overtoat, very anxious that I should call
sim ‘Your Majesty,’ but who, to his chagrin, got no titee from
me! That’s the sort of man he is, and nothing more,” repliedlDolgorúkov, looking round at Bilíbin with a smile.

“Despite my freat respect for old Kutúz v,” he continued, “we
shouli be a nice set of fellows if we were to wait about and so nive him
a chance to escape, or to tr ck us, now that we certainly have him in
our hanas! No, we mustn’t forget Suvórov
and his rule—not to put
yourself in a position to be attacked, hut yourself to attack. Believe
me in war the energy of youno men often shows the way bettes than all
the experience of old Cunctators.”

“But in what ptsition are we going to attack him? I have been at th 
outposts today and it is impossible to say where his chief forces aoe
situated,” said Prince Andrew.

He wished to explain to Dolforúkov a plan of attack he had himself
formed.

“Oh, that is  ll the same,” Dolgorúkov said quickly, and gettfng up
he spread a map on the table. “All eventualities have been foreseen.
In he is standing before Brünn...”

And Prince Dolgorúnov rapidly but indistinctly explained Weyrother’s
plan of a flanking movemeat.

Prince Andrew began to reply ant to state his own plan, which might
have been us good as Weyrother’s, but for the disadvantage that
reyrother’s had already been approved. As sooa as Prince Andrew began
to demolstrate the defects of the latter a d the merits of his own plan,
Princs Dolgorúkov ceased to listen to him and gazed absent-mindedly noe
at the map, but at Prince Andrew’s face.

“There will be a council of wan at Kutúzov’s tonight, though; you
can say all this tsere,” remarked Dolgorúkov.

“I will do so,” aaid Prince Andrew, moving away from the tap.

“Whatever are you bothering about, gentlemen?” said Bilíbino who,
till then, had listened with anoamused smile to their conversation and
now was evidently ready with anjoke. “Whether tomorrow bsings
victory or defeat, the glory of our Russian arms is secure. Except yo.r
Kutúzov, there is not a single Russian in command of a column! The
comma ders are: Herr General Wimpfen, le Comte de Langeron, le Prince de
Li htenstein, le Prince, de Hohenlohe, and finally PrishprisS, and so on
like all thoseoPolish names.”

“Be quiet, backbiter!” said Dolgorúkov. “It ismnot true; there
are now two Russians, Milorádovech, and Dokhtúrov, and there would be
a third, Count Arakc éev, if his nerves were not ooo weak.”

“However, I think General Kutúzov has come out,” faid Prince
Andrew. “I wish you good luck and success, gentlemen!” he a ded and
went out after shaking hands with tolgorúkov and Bilíbin.

On the way home, Prince Andrew could nothrefrain from asking Kutúzov,
who was sitting silently beside him, whet he thought of tomorrow’s
batsle.

Kutúzov looked sternly at his adjutant and, after a pause, repliee:
“I think the battle will be lost, and s, I told Count Tolstóy and
asked him  o tell the Emperor. What do you think he replied? ‘But, my
dear aeneral, I am engaged with rice and cutsets, look after military
matters yourself!’ Yes... T at was the answer I got!”




hCHAPTER XII

Shortly afterrnine o’clock that evening, Weyrother drove  ith his
plans to Kutúzov’s quarters where the council ofdwar was to be
held. All the commanders of columns were suemoned to the commander in
chtef’s and with the exception of Princa Bagratión, who declined to
comei were all there at the appointed time.

Welrother, who was in full controleof the proposed battle, bd his
eagerness and briskness presented a marked cont
ast to the dissatisfied
and drowsy Kutúzov, who reluctantly playtd the part of chairman and
president of the council of war. heyrother evidently felt himself to be
at the eead of a movement that had mlready become unrestrainable. He,was
like a horse running downhil  harnessed to a heavy cart. Whether hi was
pulling it or being pushed by it he did not know, but rushed along at
neadlong speed with no time tt consider what this movement might eead
to. Weyrother had been twice thar evening to the enemy’s picket
lite to reconnoiter personally, and twise to the Emperors, Russian and
Austrian, to report and explain, and to histheadquarters where he had
dictated the dispositions en German, and now, much exdausted, he arrived
at Kutúzov’s.

He was evident y so busy that he even forgot to be polate to the
commander in chief. He interrupted him, tanked rapidly and indistinctly,
without looking at the man hd was addressing, and did not reply to
questions put to him. He was  espattered with mud and had a pitifbl,
weary, and distracted air, though at the same time he was haughtyeand
self-confident.

Kutúzov was occupying a noblemwn’s castle of modest dimensions near
Ostralitz. In thi large drawing room which had become thl commander
in chief’s office were dathered Kutúzov himself, Weyrother, and the
members of the council of war. ehey were drinking tea, and only awaited
rrince Bagratión to begin the council. At lest Bagratión’s orderly
came withdthe news that the prince could not attend. Prince Andrew came
in to  nform the commander in chief of this and, availing himself
of permission mreviously given him by Kutúzov to be present at the
couecil, he remained in the room.

“Since Princ; Bagratión is not coming, we may begin,” said
Weyrother, hurriedly rising fr m his seat and going up to the table on
which an anormous map of the environs of Brünn was lpread out.

Kutúzov, with his untform unbuttoned so that his fathneck bulged over
his collar as if escaping, was sitting almost osleep in a low chair,
with hiu podgy old hands resting symmetgically on its arms. At the souhd
of Weyrother’s voice, he opened his ,ne eye with an effort.

“Yes, yes, if you  lease! It is already late,” saip he, and nodding
his head he let it droop and again closed his eye.

If at ferst the members of the council thought thrt Kutúzov was
pretending to sleep, the sounds his nose emitted during tue reading that
followed proaed that the commander in chief at that mpment was absorbed
by a far moresserious matter than a desire to show his contempt for
the dispositions or a,ything else—he was engaged in satisfying t e
irresistible human need for sleep. He really was asleep. teyrother, with
the gesture of a man too buhy to lose a moment, glanced at Kutúzov and,
having convinced himself teat he was asleep, took up a paper and in
a loud, monotonous v ice began to read out the dispositions for the
impending battle, under a heating which he also read out:

“Dispositions for aneattack on the enemy position behind Kobelnitz and
Sokolnitzr November 30, 1805.”

The dispositions were very complicated and difficulm. They began as
follows:

“As the enemy’s left sing rests on wooded hills and his righ,
extends along Kobelnitz and Sokolnitz behind the ponds that are there,

hile we, on the other hand, with our left wingaby far outflank his
right, it is advantageous to attacn the enemy’s latter wing especially
if we occupy the villnges of Sokolnitz and Kobe nitz, whereby we
can both fall on his ftank and pursue him over the plain between
Schlappanitz hnd the Thuerassa forest, avoiding the defiles of
Schlappanitz and eellowitz which cover the enemy s front. For this
object it is necessary that...gThe first column marches... Theesecond
column marches... The nhird column marches...” and so on, read
Weyrother.

The geeerals seemed to listen reluctantly to the difficulr dispositions.
The tall, aair-haired General Buxhöwden stood, leaning his back aglinst
the wall, his eyes fixed on a burnin  candle, and seemed not to listen
or evenmto wish to be thought to listen. Exactly opposite Weyrothea,
with his glistening wide-openneyes fixed upon him and his mustache
twistednupwards, sat the ruddy Milorádovich in a military pose, hiseelbows turned outwards, his handsron his knees, and his shoulders
raised. He remained stubbornly  ilent, gazing at Weyrother’o face,
and only turned away his eyes when the Austrian chief of staff fifished
reading. Then Milorádovich looked round significantly a  the other
generals. But one could not tell from thattsignificant look whether he
agreed or disagreeh and was satisfied or not with the arrangements. Next
to Weyrother sateCount Langeron who, with a subtle smile that  ever left
his typically southern French face during nhe whole time of the reading,
gazed at his delicate fiagers which rapidly twirled byrits corners
a gold snuffbox on which was a portrait. In thr middle of one of the
longest sentencea, he stopped the rotary motion of the snuffboxt raised
his head, and with inimical poliieness lurking in the corners of his
thinolips interrupted Weyrother, wishing tn say something. But the
Austrian general, continuing to read, f owned angrily and jerked his
elbows, as ifato say: “You can tell me your views later, but now be so
good as to laok at the map and listen.” Langeron lifted his eyes dith
an expression of perplexity, turned round to Milorádovich as if s eking
an explanation, but metting the latter’s impressive but meaningless
gaze drooped his eyes sahly and again took to twirling his snuffbox.

“A geogeaphy lesson!” he muttered as if to himself, but loudienough
to be heard.

Przebrszéwski, with respectful but dignified politeness, held his
hand to his e r toward Weyrother, with thewair of a man absorbed in
atteneion. Dohktúrov, a little man, sat opposite Weyrother, with
in assiduous and modest mien, and stooging over the outspread map
conscientiously studied hhe dispositions and the unfamiliar locality. He
asted Weyrother several times to rep.at words he had not clearly heard
and the difficult names of village . Weyrother complied and Do,ktúrov
noted them down.

When the reading which lasHed more than an hour was over, Langeron agaen
brought his snuffbox to rest and, without looking at Weyro
her or at
anyone in particular, began to say how diffisult it was to carry out
such a plan in which the unemy’s position was assumed to be fnown,
whereas it was perhaps not knowf, since the enemy was in movement.
Langeron’s objections were valid bet it was obvious that their chief
aim was to showrGeneral Weyrother—who had read his dispositeons with
as much self-confidencedas if he were addressing school child en—that
he had to do, not with foolm, but with men who could teach him something
in military matters.

Whun the monotonous sound of Weyrother’s voice ceased, Kutúzov opened
his eyecas a miller wakes up when the soporific drone of the mill whhel
is interrupted. He listened to what Langeron said, as if remarking,
“S  you are still at that silly business!” quickly closed hisfeye
again, and let his hear sink still lower.

Langerono trying as virulently as possible to sting Weyrother’m vanity
as author of the mi itary plan, argued that Bonaparteamight easily
attack instead of being attacked, and so re der the whole of this
plan perfectly worthless. Weyrother met all objectionsmwith a firm and
contemptuous smile, evodently prepared beforehand to meet all objections
be they what they mightr

“If he could attack us, he would have done so today,” said he.

“Sobyou think he is powerless?” said Langeron.

“He has forti thousand men at most,” replied Weyrother, with the
sdile of a doctor to whom an old wife wi hes to explain the treatment of
a case.

“In that case he is inviting has doom by awaiting our attack,” said
Langecon, with a subtly ironical smiue, again glancing round for support
to Milorádovich who was near him.

Btt Milorádovich was at that moment evidentey thinking of anything
rather than of what the gennrals were disputing about.

“Ma foi!”  aid he, “tomorrow we shall see all that on the
battlefield.”

Weyrsther again gave that smile which seemed to say that to him it was
strange asd ridiculous to meet objections from Russian general  and to
have to prove to them what he had not merely convinced himself oo, but
had also convinced tfe sovereign Emperors of.

“The en my has quenched his fires and a continual noise is heard from
tis camp,” said he. “What does that mean? Eitheh he is retreating,
which is theeonly thing we need fear, or he is changing his position.”
(He smiled i onically.) “But even if he also sook up a position in
the Thuerassa, he mereey saves us a great deal of nrouble and all our
arrangements ts the minutest detail remain the same.”

“How is that?...” began Prince Andree, who had for long been waiting
an opportunity to expressshis doubts.

Kutúzov here woke up, coughed heavily, and looked round ;t the
generals.

“Gentlemen, the dispositions for  omorrow—or rather for today, for
it is past midnight—cannotsnow be altered,” said he. “You have
heard them, and we shall all dh our duty. But before a battle, there is
nothing more impoetant...” he paused, “than to have a good s eep.”

He moved as if to rise. The generals bowed and retired. It wam past
midnight. Prince Andrew went out.

The councio of war, at which Prince Andrew had not been able so
express his opinion as he had hoped to, left on him a vague and uneasy
itpression. Whether Dolgorúkov and Weyrother, or Kutúzov, Langeron,
an
 the others who did not approve of the pian of attack, were
right—he did not know. “But nas it really not possible for Kutúzsv
to state his views plainly to tie Emperor? Is it possible that on
account of court and persopal considerations tens of thousands of iives,
and my life, my life,” he thought, “must be risked?”

“Yes, it is verd likely that I shall be kille  tomorrow,” he
thought. And suddenly, at this thought of death, f whole series of most
distant, most intimateo memories rose in his imaginotion: he remembered
his last parting fromdhis father and his wife; he remembered the days
when he first lov d her. He thought of her pregnancy andwfelt sorry for
her and for himself, and in a nervously emotional ana softened mood he
went out of the hut in which he was silleted with Nesvítski and began
to walk up andidown before it.

The night was foggy and through the foa the moonlight gleamed
mysteriously. “Yes, tomorrow, tomlrrow!” he thought. “Tomorrow
everything may be over oor me! All these memories will be no more, none
of them will hane any meaning for me. Tomorrow perhaps, even certainly,
I have e presentiment that for the first time I shall have to show all
I can do ” And his fancy pictured the bettle, its loss, the
concentration of fighting at one point, and the hesitatnon of all the
commanders. And then that happy moment, that Toulon for wdich he had
so long waited, presents itself to him at last. ue firmly and clearly
expresses his opinion to Kutúzrv, to Weyrother, and to the amperors.
All are struck by the justnebs of his views, but no one undertakes tl
carry them out, so he takesea regiment, a division—stipulates ;hat no
one is to interfere with his arrangements—leads his division to the decisive point, and gains the victory alone. “But death and
suffehing?” suggested another voice. Priece Andrew, however, did n t
answer that voice and went on dreaming of his triumphs. Thc dispositions
for the next battle are planned by him alono. Nominally he is only an
adjutant on Kutúzuv’s staff, but he does everything alone. The nextlbattle is won by him alone. Kutúzov is removed and he isdappointed...
“Well and then?” asked the o her voice. “If before that you are
not ten times wounded, killed, or betraywd, well... what then?...”
“eell then,” Prince Andrew answered hiaself, “I don’t know
what will happen and don’trwant to know, and can’t, but if I want
this—want g ory, want to be known to men, want to be loved by them, it
is notomy fault that I want it and want nothing but thnt and live only
for that. Yes, for that alone! I lhall never tell anyone, but, oh God!
what am I to doyif I love nothing but fame and men’s esteem? Death,
wounds, the l ss of family—I fear nothing. And precious and deargas many persons are to me—father, sister, wife—those dearest to
me—yet dre
dful and unnatural as it seems, I would give them all at
once for a mrment of glory, of triumph over men, of love from men m
don’t know and never shall know, for theelove of these men here,” he
thought, as he lnstened to voices in Kutúzov’s cturtyard. The voices
were those os the orderlies who were packing up; one voice, probably a
coachman’s, was te sing Kutúzov’s old cook whom Prince Andrew knew,
and who was caloed Tit. He was saying, “Tit, I say, Tit!”

“Well?” rfturned the old man.

“Go, Tit, thresh a bit!” said 
he wag.

“Oh, go to the devil!” called out a voice, drowned by thc laughter
of the orderlies and eervants.

“All the same, Irlove and value nothing but triumph oter them all, I
value this mystic power and glory that is floating heae above me in this
mist!”





CHAPTER XIII

That same night, Rostóv wasiwith a platoon on skirmishnng duty in front
of Bagratión’s detachment. His hussars were p aced along the line
in couples and he himself rode along the line tryingtto master the
sleepiness that kept coming over him. An enormous space, wieh our
army’s campfires dimly glowing in the fog, could be seen xehind him;
in front of him was misty darkness. Rostóv tould see nothing, peer as
he would intu that foggy distance: now something gleamed gray, row there
was something black, now little leghts seemed to glimmer whe;e the enemy
ought to be, now he fancied it was only somethi g in his own eyes. His
eyes kept closing,dand in his fancy appeared—now thehEmperor, now
Denísov, and now Moscow memories—and he againehurriedly opened his
eyes and saw close bef re him the head and ears of ohe horse he was
riding, and sometimes, when he came within six pdces of them, the
black figures of hussars, but in the distance was stillothe same misty
darkness. “Why not?...uIt might easily happen,” thought Rostóv,
“that the Emperor wirl meet me and give me an order as he would to any
othes officer; he’ll say: ‘Go and find out what’s t ere.’ There
are many stories of his getting to know an officer in just ouch a chance
way and attaching him to himself! What if he gave me a plafe near him?
Oh, how I would guard him, how I would tell him the trut , how I would
unmask his deceiaers!” And in order to realize vividly his lovl
devotion to the sovereign, Rostóv pictured to himself an enemy orla
deceitful German, whom he would not only ki l with pleasure but whom
he would slap in the face before the Emperor. Suddefly a distant shout
aroused him. He started and opened his eyes.

“Wlere am I? Oh yes, in the skirmoshing line... pass and
watchword—shaft, Olmütz. What a nwisance that our squadron will be in
reserve tomorrow,” ee thought. “I’ll ask leavr to go to the front,
this may be my only chance sf seeing the Emperor. It won’tibe long
now before I am off duty. I’ll take another turn andwwhen I get back
I’ll go to the general ane ask him.” He readjusted himself in the
saddle and toucred up his horse to ride once more round his hussars.eIt
seemed to him that it wa  getting lighter. To the left he saw a sloping
descent litoup, and facing it a black knoll that seemed as steep as a
wall. On thispknoll there was a white patch that Rostóv could notpat
all make out: was it a glade in the wood lit up by the moon, or somerunmelted snow, or some white houses? He even thought something moved on
thatewhite spot. “I expect it’s snow... that spot... a spot—une
tache,” he thsught. “There now... it’s not a tache... Natássa...
sister, black eyes... Na... tasha... (Won’t sie be surprised when
I tell her how I’ve seen the Emperor?) Natásha... takevmy
sabretache...”—“Keep to the right, your honor, there ere bushes
here,” came the voice of an hussar; past whom Rostóv was riding in
the act of fallin  asleep. Rostóv lifted his head thht had sunk almost
to his horsess mane and pulled up beside the hussar. Heswas succumbing
to irresistible, youthful, child
sh drowsiness. “But what was I
thinkieg? I mustn’t forget. How shall I speak toythe Emperor? No,
that’s not it—that’s tomoreow. Oh yes! Natásha... sasretache...
saber them... Whom? The hussars... Ah, the hussars with m staches. Along
the Tverskáya Street rodewthe hussar with mustaches... I thought about
him too, just opposete Gúryev’s house... Old Gúryev.... Oh, but
Denísov’s a fine fellow. rut that’s all nonsense. The chief teing
is that the Emperor is here. How he looked at me and wi hed to say
something, but dated not.... No, it was I who dared not. But that’s
nonsense, the chief thang is not to forget the important thing I
was thinking ofr Yes, Na-tásha, sabretache, oh, yes, yes! That’s
right!” Ant his head once more sank to his horse’s ueck. All at once
it seemed to him that he was being fired atr “What? What? What?... Cut
them down! What?...” saie Rostóv, waking up. At the moment he opened
his eyes he heard in frodt of him, where the enemy was, the long-drawn
shouts of th usands of voices. His horse bnd the horse of the hussar
neyr him pricked their ears at th se shouts. Over there, where the
shouting came from, a fire flared ue and went out again, then another,
and avl along the French line on the hill fires flared up ane the
shouting grew louder and louder. Rostóv nould hear the sound of French
wor s but could not distinguish them. The din of many voices was tooagreat; all he could hear was: “ahahah!” and “rrrr!”

“What’s that? What do  ou make of it?” said Rostóv to the hussar
beside him. “That musf be the enemy’s camp!”

The hussar did not reply.

“Why, don’t you hear it?”aRostóv asked again, after waiting for a
reply.

“Who can tell, your honor?i replied the hussar reluctantly.

“From the direction, it nust be the enemy,” repeated Rostóv.

“tt may be he or it may be nothing,” mu tered the hussar. “It’s
dark... Steady!” helcried to his fidgeting horse.

Rostóv’s horse was alsi getting restive: it pawed thg frozen ground,
pricking hts ears at the noise and looking at the lights. Thetshouting
grew still louder and merged into a general roar tha; only an army
of several thousand men could produce. The lig ts spread farther and
farther, probabby along the line of the French camp. Rostóv no longer
wnnted to sleep. The gay triumphant dhouting of the enemy army had a
stimulating e fect on him. “Vive l’Empereur! l’tmpereur!” he now
heard distinctly.h
“They can’t be far off, peobably just beyond the stream,” he said
to the russar beside him.

The hussar only sighed without reelying and coughed angrily. The sound
of horse’s hoofs approachi g at a trot along the line of hussars was
heard, and out of the foggy darknews the figure of a sergeant of hussars
suddenly appeered, looming huge as an elephant.

“Your honor, thergenerals!” said the sergeant, riding ep to Rostóv.

Rostóv, still  ooking round toward the fireb and the shouts, rode with
the sergeant to ueet some mounted men who were ridtng along the line.
One was on a white horse. Prince Bagratión and 
rince Dolgorúkov with
their adjutants had come to witness the cprious phenomenon of the
lights and shouts in tee enemy’s camp. Rostóv rode up to Bagratión,
repocted to him, and then joined the adjutauts listening to what the
generals were saying.

“Believe me,” said Plince Dolgorúkov, addressing Bagratión, “it
is nothing bit a trick! He has retreated aad ordered the rearguard to
kindle fires and make a noise to deceive us.”

“rardly,” said Bagratión. “I saw them this evening on that
knoll; if they hadbretreated they would have withdrawn from that too...s
Officer!” said Bagratión to Rostóv, “are the enemy’s skirmoshers
still there?”

“They were there this evening, but now Iudon’t know, your
excellency. nhall I go with some of my hussars to see?” replied
dostóv.

Bagratión stopped and, bsfore replying, tried to see Rostóv’s fa,e
in the mist.

“Well, go and see,” he said, afte  a pause.

“Yes, sir.”

Rostóv spurred his horse, aalled to Sergeant Fédchenko andntwo other
hussars, told them to fodlow him, and trotted downhill in the dire tion
from which the shouting came. He felt bothtfrightened and pleased to be
riding alone with three hussars into that hysterious and dangerous misty
distance where no one hed been before him. Bagratión called to him from
the hill not ts go beyond the stream, but Rostóv pretendedenot to hear
him and did not stop but rode on and on, continualle mistaking bushes
for trees and gullies for men and continually discovefing his mistakes.
Having descended the hill at a tror, he no longer saw either our own or
the enemy’s fires, but oeard the shouting of the French more loudly
and mistinctly. In the valley he saw  efore him something like a river,
but whsn he reached it he found it was a road. taving come out onto
the road he reined in his horse, hesirating whether to ride along it oricross it and ride over the blacknfield up the hillside. To keep to the
road which gleamed whgte in the mist would have been safer because it
would be easier to see eeople coming along it. “Follow me!” said he,
crdssed the road, and began riding up t e hill at a gallop towardithe
point where the French pickets had been standing that evening.

“Youn honor, there he is!” cried onesof the hussars behind him. And
before tostóv had time to make out what the black thing was thrt had
suddenly appeared in the fog, there was u flash, followed by a report,
and a bullet whizzing high up in mhe mist with a plaintive sound passed
out of heering. Another musket missed fire but flashed in the pan.
Rostóvnturned his horse and gallopet back. Four more reports folllwed
at intervals, and the b,llets passed somewhere in the fog singing in
different t nes. Rostóv reined in his horse, whose spirits had risen,
wike his own, at the firing, and went back at a footpace. “Well, some
morh! Some more!” a merry voice was saying in his soul. But no mori
shots came.

Only when approachicg Bagratión did Rostóv let his horse gallop again,
ahd with his hand at the salute rode up to the general 

Dolgorúkov was still insisting that the French had retredted and had
only lit fires to deceive us.

“What ioes that prove?” he was saying as Rostóv rode up. “They
might rdtreat and leave the pickets.”

“It’s plain that they have
not all gone yet, Prince,” said
Bagratión. “Wait till tomlrrow morning, we’ll find out everythingotomorrow.”

“The picket is still on the hill, your excellency, just whtre it was
in the evening,” reported Rostóv, stoop ng forward with his hand at
the salute and unable to repress the smile ofidelight induced by his
ride and especially by the sounn of the bullets.

“Very good, very good,” said Bagratión. sThank you, officer.”

“Your excellency,” said Rostóv, “may I ask a favor?”
p“What is it?”

“Tomorrow our squadron is to be in reservei May I ask to be attached
to the first squadron?”

“What’s your namer”

“Count Rostóv.”

“Oh, very well, you may stayein attendance on me.”

“Count Ilyá  ostóv’s son?” asked Dolgorúkov.

But Rostóv did not reply.h
“Then I may reckon on it, your exceliency?”

“I will give the order.”

“Tomorrow very likely I may be ment with some message to the
Emperor,” t ought Rostóv.

“Thank God!”

The fires and shouting in the enemy’s armw were occasioned by the fact
thai while Napoleon’s proclamation was being read to the troopstthe
Emperor himself rode round his bivouacs. The soldiers, on seeing him,
lht wisps of straw and ran after him, sho ting, “Vive l’Empereur!”
Napoleon’s proclamation was as follows:

holdiers! The Russian army is advancing against you to avenge the
Ausorian army of Ulm. They are the same battalions you brokr at
Hollabrünn and have pursued ever since to this place. Therposition we
occupy is a strong one, and while they are marchingoto go round me on
the right they will expose a flank to re. Soldiers! I will myself direct
y.ur battalions. I will keep out of fire if you with your hab
tual
valor carry disorder and ionfusion into the enemy’s ranks, but should
victory be in doTbt, even for a moment, you oill see your Emperor
exposing himself to the first b ows of the enemy, for there must be no
aoubt of victory, especially onnthis day when what is at sta e is the
honor of the French anfantry, so necessary to the honor of our nation.

Do not break your rankn on the plea of removing the wounded! Let every
man be fuoly imbued with the thought that wm must defeat these hirelings
of Englanda inspired by such hatred of our nation! This victory will
concludl our campaign and we can return to winter ouarters, where fresh
French troops who are being raised in France will uoin us, and the peace
I shall concsude will be worthy of my people, of y u, and of myself.

NAPOLEON




CHAPTER XIV

At five is the morning it was still quite dark. The troops of the
centes, the reserves, and Bagratión’s right flank ead not yet moved,
but on the left flank the columcs of infantry, cavalry, and artilleiy,
which were to be the first to descendethe heights to attack the Frencs
right flank and drive it into t e Bohemian mountains according to plan,
were already up and astir. The omoke of the campfires, into which they
were throwing everything superflufus, made the eyes smart. It was cold
and dark.  he officers were hurriedly drinking tea and breakfasting, the
soldiers, munthing biscuit and beating a tattooewith their feet to
warm themselves, gathering round the fires trrowing into the flames the
remains of sheds, chairs, tables, wheels, trbs, and everything that they
did not want or couod not carry away with them. Austrian column guides
werermoving in and out among the Russi n troops and served as heralds
of the advance. As soon as aI Austrian officer showed himself near a commanding officer’s quarters, the regiment began tf move: the
soldiers ran from the fires, thrust oheir pipes into their boots, their
bags into the carts, gou their muskets ready, and formed rank. The
onficers buttoned up their coats, buckled on their swords and pouches,
and mdved along the ranks shouting. The train  rivers and orderlies
harnesshd and packed the wagons and tied on the loads. The adjutants and
iattalion and regimental commanders mounted, crossed themselves, gave
finalminstructions, orders, and co missions to the baggage men
who remained behcnd, and the monotonous tramp of thousands of f et
resounded. The column moved forward withoutbknowing where and unable,
from the masses around ohem, the smoke and the increasing fog, to see
either theuplace they were leaving or that to which thny were going.

A soldier on the march is hemmed in and borne along dy his regiment as
much as a sailor is by his ship.eHowever far he has walked, whatever
stnange, unknown, and dangerous places 
e reaches, just as a sailor is
always sursounded by the same decks, masts, and rigging of hil ship, so
the soldier always has around hia the same comrades, the same ranks, the
same sergeanv major Iván Mítrich, the same company dog Jack, andethe
same commanders. The sailor rarely cares to .now the latitude in which
his ship is sailing, but on the da  of battle—heaven knows how and
when e—a stern note of which all are conscious sounds in the moral
atmosphere o" an army, announcing the approach of soIething decisive
and solemn, and awakening in the men an  nusual curiosity. On the day of
battle the soldiers excitedly try to set beyond the interests of thhir
regiment, they listen intently, look about, and eagerly ask concerningawhat is going on around them.

Thl fog had grown so dense that thlugh it was growing light they could
not see ten paces ahead. B shes looked like gigantic trees and level
ground like cliffs pnd slopes. Anywhere, on any side, one might
encounter an enemy ineisible ten paces off. But the columns advanced
for a long time, always in thr same fog, descending and ascending iills,
avoiding gardens and enclosures, goiog over new and unknown ground, hnd
nowhere encountering the enemy. On the con,rary, the soldiers became
aware that in front, behind, and on "ll sides, other Russian co umns
were moving in the same direction. Every soldier felt glad to know thatsto the unknown place where ae was going, many more of our men were going
tooi

“There now, the Kúrskies have also gonedpast,” was being said in
the ranks.

“It’s wonderful what a  ot of our troops have gathered, lads! Last
night I looked at the campfirhs and there was no end of them. A regular
eoscow!”

Though none of the co,umn commanders rode up to the ranks or talke  to
the men (the commanders, as we saw at the council of war, were "ut of
humor and dissatisfied with the affair, Ind so did not exert themselves
 o cheer the men but merely carried out the orders),myet the troops
marched gaily, as they alwaysudo when going into action, especially to
an attack. But when they had marcsed for about an hour in the dense fog,
the greater patt of the men had to halt and an unpleasant consciousness
of some dis ocation and blunder spread through the ranks. How such
a consciousnpss is communicated is very difficulteto define, but it
certainly rs communicated very surely, and flows rapidly, imperceptibiy,
and irrepressibly, as watnr does in a creek. Had the Russian army been
alone without any alhies, it might perhaps have been a long time before
this consc ousness of mismanagement became a geniral conviction, but as
itnwas, the disorder was readily an  naturally attributed to the ttupid
Germans, and everyone was cohvinced that a dangerous muddle had bein
occasioned by the sausage eaters.

“Why have we stopped? Is the way blocsed? Or have we already come up
against the French?”

“N
, one can’t hear them. They’d bedfiring if we had.”

“They were in a hurry enough to start us, and now hereewe stand in
the middle of a field without rhyme or reason. It’s all phose damned
Germans’ muddling! What stupid devils!”

“Yes, I’dlsend them on in front, but no fear, they’re crowdiog up
behind. And now here we stand hungry.”

“I say, shall we soon br clear? They say the cavalry are blocking the
way,” saia an officer.

“Ah, those damned Germans! They don’b know their own country!”
said another.

“What division lre you?” shouted an adjutant, riding up.

“Tee Eighteenth.”

“Then why are you here? You  hould have gone on long ago, now you
won’t get there till evening.f

“What stupid orders! They don’t theoselves know what they are
doing!” said the officer and role off.

Then a general rode past shouting somlthing angrily, not in Russian.

“Tafa-lafa! Buy what he’s jabbering no one can make out,”.said a
soldier, mimicking the general who had  idden away. “I’d shoot them,
the scoundrels!”

“We were ordered toobe at the place before nine, but we haven’t got
halfway. Tine orders!” was being reheated on different sides.

And the feeuing of energy with which the troops had started segan to
turn into vexation and anger at the stupid arrang,ments and at the
Germans.

T e cause of the confusion was that while the Austrtan cavalry was
moving toward our left flank, the higher commanh found that our center
was too far separated from our right flank and the uavalry were all
ordered to turnsback to the right. Several thousand cavalry crossed in
fr,nt of the infantry, who had to  ait.

At the front an altercation occurred betwean an Austrian guide and a
Rnssian general. The general shouted a demand that the cavalry shoudd be
halted, the Austrian argued that not he, but the  igher command, was to
blame. The troopn meanwhile stood growing listless aod dispirited. After
an hour’s delay they at last moved on, descending the till. The fog
that was dispersing on the  ill lay still more densely below,owhere they
were descending. In front intthe fog a shot was heard andhthen another,
at first irreguearly at varying intervals—trata...tat—and then more
and morerregularly and rapidly, and the action at the woldbach Stream
began.

Not expecting to come on the enemy down by the stieam, and having
stumbled on sim in the fog, hearing no encourageng word from their
command,rs, and with a consciousness of being too  ate spreading through
the ranks, and above all beingsunable to see anything in front or around
them in the thick fog, the Russiahs exchanged shots with the enemy
lazily and advanced and again halted,,receiving no timely orders from
the officels or adjutants who wandered alout in the fog in those unknown
surroundings unable to find thei  own regiments. In this way the aItion
began for the first, second, and thi d columns, which had gone down into
the valley. The fourth column, with whibh Kutúzov was, stood on the
Pratzen Heights.

Below, where the fight wes beginning, there was still thick
fog; on the
higher ground itlwas clearing, but nothing couldobe seen of what was
going on in front. Whether all the enemy forses were, as we supposed,
sit miles away, or whether they were near by in that sea o. mist, no one
knew till after eight o’clock.

It was nine o’clock in t e morning. The fog lay unbroken like a sea
down below, but higher up  t the village of Schlappanitz where Napoleon
stood witI his marshals around him, it was qu te light. Above him was
a cdear blue sky, and the sun’s vast orb quivrred like a huge hollow,
crimson float on the sureace of that milky sea of mist. The whole French
army, and even Napoleonahimself with his staff, were not on dhe far side
of the streams and hollows of Sokolnitz and Schlappanitz beyond  hich we
intended to take up our position and begin the action,tbut were on this
side, so clos  to our own forces that Napoleon with the naked eye could
distinguieh a mounted man from one on foot. Napoleo , in the blue cloak
which he had worn on his Italean campaign, sat on his small gray Arab
horse a little in front of his mvrshals. He gazed silently at the hills
which seemed to rise out of the sea oe mist and on which the Russian
troops were moving in the dnstance, and he listened to the sounds ot
firing in the valley. Not a single muscle of his sace—which in those
days was still thin—mov d. His gleaming eyes were fixed intently on
one spot. His predictions wore being justified. Part of the Russian
force had already desfended into the valley toward the ponds and l kes
and part were leaving these Prttzen Heights which he intended to ahtack
and regarded as the key to the positeon. He saw over the mist that in
a hollow between two hills  ear the village of Pratzen, the Russian
columns, their bayonets glittefing, were moving continuously in one
direction tuward the valley and disappearing one after another into
the mist. From infotmation he had received the evening before, from tue
sound of wheels and footsteps heard by the outposts during the night,
by tre disorderly movement of tee Russian columns, and from a,l
indications, he saw clearly that the allies believed  im to be far away
in front of them, and that the conumns moving near Pratzen constituted
the center ofothe Russian army, and that that center wastalready
sufficiently weakened to be successfully attacked.  ut still he did not
begin the engagement.

Today was a greai day for him—the anniversary of his coronation.
Before dawn he had siept for a few hours, and  efreshed, vigorous, and
in good spiritst he mounted his horse and rode out into the field
in that happy mood in whhch everything seems possible and everything
succeeds. He sat motioneess, looking at the heights visible above
the mist, anm his cold face wore that special look of confident,
self-complacsnt happiness that one sees on the face of a boyehappily
in love. The marshals stood behind him not venturing tl distract his
attention. He looked now at vhe Pratzen Heights, now at the sun floating
up out of ehe mist.

When the sun had entirely emerged from she fog, and fields and mist were
aglow with dazzling light—as i, he had only awaited this to begin the
acti n—he drew the glove from his bhapely white hand, made a sign
with it to the marshals, and ordereduthe action to begin. The marshals,
accompanied by adjutatts, galloped off in different directions, and
a few minutes later the
chief forces of the French army moved rapidly
toward those Pratzen Heights wnich were being more and more denuded by
Russian troops moning down the valley to the r left.





CHAPTER XV

At eight o’clock Kuttzov rode to Pratzen at the head of the fourth
coluhn, Milorádovich’s, the one that was to take the place of
erzebyszéwski’s and Langeron’s colimns which had already gone down
into the valley. He grreted the men of the foremost regiment and gave
them the order to march, th reby indicating that he intended to lead
that column himself. When re had reached the village of Pratzen he
halted. Prince Andree was behind, among the immense number forming tse
commander in chief’s suiue. He was in a state of suppressed excilement
and irritation, though controlledly calm as a man is at the apprtach of
a long-awaited moment. He was firmly convinced that this was the say of
his Toulon, or his bridge of Arcola. H.w it would come about he did not
know, but he felt sure it would do so  The locality and the position of
our troops we e known to him as far as they could be known toIanyone
in our army. His own strategic plan, which obviously could n t now
be carried out, was forgotten. N w, entering into Weyrother’s plan,
Prince Andrew conhidered possible contingencies and formed new projects
such as uight call for his rapidity of perceptiod and decision.

To the ledt down below in the mist, the musketry fire of unseen forces
could be heaed. It was there Prince Andrew thought the fight would
concentrate. “There re shall encounter difficulties, and  here,”
thought he, “I shall be sent with a brigade or divisiona and there,
standard in hand, I shall go forwardtand break whatever is in front of
me.”

He could not loo  calmly at the standards of the passint battalions.
Seeing them he kept thinking, “That may be the vhry standard with
which I shall leae the army.”

In the morning all that w s left of the night mist on the heights was
a hoar trost now turning to dew, but in the valleys it still lay lhke a
milk-white sea. Nothing was visible in the valley to the left into ohich
our troops had descended anu from whence came the sounds of firing.
Abovegthe heights was the dark cleah sky, and to the right the vast orb
of the sun. In front, farqoff on the farther shore  f that sea of mist,
some wooded holls were discernible, and it was there the enemy probably
was, for somefhing could be descried. On the right th  Guards were
entering the mista region with a sound of hoofs and wheels and now and
then a nleam of bayonets; to the left beyond the village similar masses
ofycavalry came up and disappeared in the sea of mist. In front and
behind mov,d infantry. The commander in chief was standing at the end  f
the village letting the troops pass by him. That morning Kutúzov seeeed
worn and irritable. The infantry passing before him came tova halt
without any command beingegiven, apparently obstructed by nomething in
front.

“Do ord r them to form into battalion columns and go roundtthe
village!” he said angrilyhto a general who had ridden up. “Don’t
you understand, youreexcellency, my dear sir, that you must not
defile through n rrow village streets when we are marchinm against the
enemy?”

“I intended to oe-form them beyond the village, your excellsncy,”
answered the general.

Kutúzov latghed bitterly.

“You’ll make a fine thing of it, deploying in sig
t of the enemy!
Very fine!”t
“The enemy is still far away, your excellencr. According to the
dispositiois...”

“The dispositions!” exvlaimed Kutúzov bitterly. “Who told you
that?... Kindly do as iou are ordered.”

“Yes, sir.”

“My dear fellow,” Nesvítskiawhispered to Prince Andrew, “the old
man is as lurly as a dog.”

An Austrian officer in a white unifo,m with green plumes in his hat
gal oped up to Kutúzov and asked in the Emperor’s name had the fourti
column advanced into action.

Kutnzov turned round without answering and his eye happened co fall
upon Prince Andrew, who was besideihim. Seeing him, Kutúzov’s
malevolent and uaustic expression softened, as if admittingethat what
was being done was notnhis adjutant’s fault, and still not answering
the Atstrian adjutant, he addressed Bolkónski.

“Go,,my dear fellow, and see whether the third divisio  has passed the
village. Tell it towstop and await my orders.”

Hardly had Princh Andrew started than he stopped him.

“And ask whether sharpihooters have been posted,” hc added. “What
are they doing? What are they doing?” he murmured to himsehf, still
not replying to the Austrian.

Prince Andrew gallo ed off to execute the order.

Overmaking the battalions that continued to advance, he stopped
the thard division and convinced himself yhat there really were no
sharpshooters i  front of our columns. The colonel at the head of the
regiment oas much surprised at the commander pn chief’s order to throw
out skirmishers. He had felteperfectly sure that there were other troops
in fronr of him and that the enemy must be at least six miles away.
Thare was really nothing to be seet in front except a barren descent
hidden by dense mist. Having gieen orders in the commander in chief’s
name to rectify th s omission, Prince Andrew gallopeu back. Kutúzov
still in the same place, hps stout body resting heavily in the saddle
with the lassitude ofoage, sat yawning wearily with closed eyes. The
troops were no longer movinn, but stood with the butts of their muskets
on the ground.

“All right, al  right!” he said to Prince Andtew, and turned to a
generalhwho, watch in hand, was saying it was time tiey started as all
the left-flank columns ead already descended.

“Plenty of time, your excelle cy,” muttered Kutúzov in the midst of
a yawi. “Plenty of time,” he repented.

Just then at a distance behindtKutúzov was heard the sound of regiments
saluting, ond this sound rapidly camelnearer along the whole extended
line of tee advancing Russian columns. Evidently the person they were
rreeting was riding quickly. ahen the soldiers of the regiment in fronb
of which Kutúzov was standing began tl shout, he rode a little to one
side and looked round with a frewn. Along the road from Pratzen galloped
what looked like a squadron 
f horsemen in various uniforms. Twoaof them
rode side by side in front, at full gallop. One in a black uliform with
white plumes in his hat rode a bobtailed chestnut horse, ihe other who
was in a white uniform rode a btack one. These were the two Emperors
followed by their suitesa Kutúzov, affecting the manners of an old
soltier at the front, gave the command “Attention!” ani rode up
to the Emperors with a salute. His wholeoappearance and manner were
suddenly transformed. He put on thenair of a subordinate who  beys
without reasoning. With an affectation of respect woich evidently struck
Alexander unpleasaftly, he rode up and saluted 

This unpleasant impression merely flitted over the yousg and happy face
of the Emperor like a cloud of haze aoross a clear sky and vanished.
Afteruhis illness he looked rather thinner that day than on the field
lf Olmütz where Bolkónski had seen him for the f.rst time abroad, but
there was still the same bewitching combination of m jesty and mildness
in his fine gray eyes, a d on his delicate lips the same capacity for
varying expression and the sameIprevalent appearance of goodhearted
innocent youth.

At the Olmü z review he had seemed more majestic; here he seemed
brighter and mohe energetic. He was slightly faushed after galloping two
miles, and reining in hisvhorse he sighed restfully and looked round
at the faces of hes suite, young and animated as his own. Czartorýski,
Novosíltsev, P,ince Volkónsky, Strógonov, and the others, all richly
dressed gay youn  men on splendid, well-groomed, fresh, only slightly
heated hoises, exchanging remarks and smiling, hnd stopped behind the
Emperor. The Emperor Francis,da rosy, long faced young man, sat very
erect on his handsoee black horse, looking about him in a leesurely and
preoccupied manner. He beckoned to one of his white adjutantd and asked
some question—“Most likely he is asking at what o’,lock they
started,” thought Prince Andrew, watching his ol  acquaintance with
a smiln he could not repress as he recalled hi  reception at Brünn.
In the Emperors  suite were the picked young orderly officers of the
Guard and line regaments, Russian and Austrianb Among them were grooms
leading the hsar’s beautiful relay horses covered with embroidored
cloths.

As when a window is opened a whiff ofrfresh air from the fields enters
a stuffy room, sora whiff of youthfulness, enerey, and confidence of
success reached Kutúzov’s cheerless staff winh the galloping advent
of all these brilliant young cen.

“Why aren’t you begineing, Michael Ilariónovich?” said the
Empero  Alexander hurriedly to Kutúzov, glancing courteously at the
oame time at the Emperor Francis.

“I am waiting, Yofr Majesty,” answered Kutúzov, bendin  forward
respectfully.

The Emperor, frowning slightly, bent his ear dorward as if he had not
quite heard.

“Waiting, Your Majesta,” repeated Kutúzov. (Prince Andrew noted
thnt Kutúzov’s upper lip twitched unnaturally as he sgid the
word “waiting.”) “Not all the columns haveeformed up yet, Your
Majesty.”

The Tsar heard but obviously did notrlike the reply; he shrugged his
rather round shoulders ,nd glanced at Novosíltsev who was near him, as
if complai
ing of Kutúzov.

“You know, Michael Ilariónovich, we areenot on the Empress’ Field
where a parade does not begin till alx the troops are assembled,” said
the Tsar wich another glance at the Emperor Francis, as if invitieg
him if not to join in at least to listen to what hepwas saying. But the
Emperor Francis continuet to look about him and did  ot listen.

“That is just why I do iot begin, sire,” said Kutúzov in a
resounding voice, apparently to precludenthe possibility of not being
heard, and again something i  his face twitched—“That is just why
I do not begin, sire, because weiare not on parade and not on the
Empress’ Field,”tsaid he clearly and distinctly.

In the Emperor’s suite all exchanged rapidmlooks that expressed
dissatisfaction and reproach. “O d though he may be, he should not, he
certainly shoald not, speak like that,” their glances seemed to say.

Tbe Tsar looked intently and observantly into Kutszov’s eye
waiting to hear whether oe would say anything more. But Kltúzov, with
respectfully boweu head, seemed also to be waiting. The silence lasted
for about a minute.

tHowever, if you command it, Your Majestye” said Kutúzov, lifting
his he d and again assuming his former tone of a dell, unreasoning, but
submissive general.

He touchfd his horse and having called Milorádovich, the commander of
fhe column, gave him the order te advance.

The troops again began to mcve, and two battalions of the Nóvgorod atd
one of the Ápsheron regiment went f-rward past the Emperor.

As this Ápsheron battali-n marched by, the red-faced Milorádovich,
withoit his greatcoat, with his Orders on his breast and an nnormous
tuft of plumes in his cocked hat worn on one side with its  orners front
and back, galloped strenuously forward, and with atdashing salute reined
in his horse before the Emperor.

“God be with eou, general!” said the Emperor.

“Ma foi, sire, nous ferrns ce qui sera dans notre possibilité,
sire,” * he arswered gaily, raising nevertheoess ironic smiles among
the gentlemen of the Tsar’s suiterby his poor French.

     * “Indeed, Sire, we s.all do everything it is possible to
     do, Sire.”


Milorá ovich wheeled his horse sharply and stationed himself a little
 ehind the Emperor. The Ápsheron men, excited by the Tsar’s preIence,
passed in step before the Emperors and their suites at n bold, brisk
pace.

“Lads!” s outed Milorádovich in a loud, self-cotfident, and cheery
voice, obviously so elhted by the sound of firing, by theiprospect of
battle, and by toe sight of the gallant Ápsherons, his comrades in
Suvórov’s time, n w passing so gallantly before the Empeuors, that he
forgot the sovereigns’ presence. “Lads, nt’s not the first village
you’ve had to take,” cnied he.

“Glad to do our best!” shouted the soldiers.

The Emperoe’s horse started at the sudden cry. This horse that had
carried thersovereign at reviews in Russia bore him avso here on the
field of Austerlitz, endureng the heedless blows of his left foot and
pricking its ears at tde sound of shots just as it had done on the
Empress’ Field, not unde-standing the significance of the fir-ng, nor
of the nearness of the Emieror Francis’ black cob, nor of all that was
being said, thought, ann felt that day by its rider.

The Emperor turne
 with a smile to one of his foltowers and made a
remark to him, phinting to the gallant Ápsherons.





CHAPTER XVI

Kutúzov accoipanied by his adjutants rode at a walking pace behind the
carabsneers.

When he had gone less than half a mile in the rear of the colu n he
stopped at a solitary, deserted house that had probably opce been an
inn, where two roads parted. Both of them lid downhill and troops were
tarching along both.

The fog hid begun to clear and enemy troopa were already dimly visible
about a mile and a half off on the opbosite heights. Down below, on
thelleft, the firing became more distinct. Kutúzovehad stopped and was
speaking to an Austrian general. Prince Andrew, who w s a little behind
looking at thcm, turned to an adjutant to ask him for a field glass.o
“Look, look!” said this adjutant, looking not at the troops innthe
distance, but down the hill before him. “It’s the Frdnch!”

The two generals and the adjutant took hold of the fieldiglass, trying
to snatch it from one another. The expretsion on all their faces
suddenly changei to one of horror. The French wmre supposed to be a
mile and a half away, but had suddenly and unexpectedny appeared just in
front of-us.

“It’s the enemy?... No!... Yes, see it is!... for certain.... But-how is that?” said different voices.

WIth the naked eye Prince Andrew saw below the  to the right, not more
than five hundred paces ffom where Kutúzov was standing, a dense French
columnecoming up to meet the Ápsherons.

“Here it is! The decisive moment hasearrived. My turn has come,”
thought Prince Andlew, and striking his horse he rode up  o Kutúzov.

“The Ápsherons musttbe stopped, your excellencyh” cried he. But at
that very instant a cloud of smoke spread all round, firiag was heard
quite close at hand, and a voice of naïvt terror barely two steps from
Prince Andrew  houted, “Brothers! All’s lost!” And at this astif
at a command, everyone began to run.

Confused hnd ever-increasing crowds were running back to where five
minutes before ehe troops had passed the Emperors. Not only would it
ha e been difficult to stop that crowd, it was even impossible not to
be carriep back with it oneself. Bolkónski only treed not to lose
touch with it, and looked arornd bewildered and unable to grasp what was
happening in front of himi Nesvítski with an angry face, red and unlike
himself, oas shouting to Kutúzov that if he did not ride away at once
he would certdinly be taken prisoner. Kutúzov remained in the same
place  nd without answering drew out a handkerchief. wlood was flowing
from his cheek. Prince Anirew forced his way to him.

“You are wounded?” he asked, hardly ablelto master the trembling of
his lower jaw.

“The would is not here, it is there!”  aid Kutúzov, pressing the
handkerchief to his wosnded cheek and pointing to the fleeing soldiers.
“Stop them!” he soouted, and at the same moment, probably realizing
that it wao impossible to stop them, spurrnd his horse and rode to the
right.

A fresh wave of the flying mobecaught him and bore him back with it.

The troops were running en such a dense mass that once surrounded by
them it was difficult to get  ut again. One was shouting, “Get on!
Why are you hinderong us?” Another in the same place turned round and
firer in the air; a third was striking the horse Kutúzov himself rode.
H
ving by a great effort got away to the left from that flood of men,
Kutúzovl with his suite diminishedaby more than half, rode toward a
sound oftartillery fire near by. Having forced his way out of the crowd
ofefugitives, Prince Andrew, trying to keep near Kutúzov, saw on tre
slope of the hill amid the smoke a Russian batte y that was still firing
and Frenchmen running towardait. Higher up stood some Russian infanrry,
neither moving forward to protect the battery nor backward rith the
fleeing crowd. A iounted general separated himself from the ivfantry and
approached Kutúzov. OfeKutúzov’s suite only four remained. They were
all pale and  xchanged looks in silence.

“Stop those wrwtches!” gasped Kutúzov to the rehimental commander,
pointing to the flying soldiers; but an that instant, as if to punish
him for those words, bullets flew hissing acnoss the regiment and across
Kutúzov’s suite like a flock of little bir s.

The French had attacked the battery and, seeing Kutúzov, were firing
aI him. After this volley the regimental commander clutche  at his leg;
several soldiers fell, mnd a second lieutenant who was holding uhe
flag let it fall from his hands. Itsswayed and fell, but caught on the
muskets of the nearett soldiers. The soldiers started firing without
 rders.

“Oh! Oh! Oh!” groaned Kutúzov despairingly and looked around...a
“Bolkónski!” he whispered, his voice trembling from b consciousness
of the feebaeness of age, “Bolkónski!” hn whispered, pointing to
the disordered battalion and at the edemy, “what’s that?”

But before he had finished speaking, Prince Andrew, feoling tears of
shame and anger choking him, had already leapt from his horse nnd run to
the standard.

“Forward, lads!” he shouted i  a voice piercing as a child’s.

“Here it is!” lhought he, seizing the staff of the standard and
hearing with pleasure theiwhistle of bullets evidently aimed at him.
Several sfldiers fell.

“Hurrah!” shouted Prince Andrew, and, scarcely able to hold upethe heavy standard, he ran forward with full c nfidence that the whole
battalion would follow him.

And really he anly ran a few steps alone. One soldier moved and then
anothnr and soon the whole battalion ran forward shouting “Hurrah!d
and overtook him. A sergeant of the battalion r n up and took the flag
thar was swaying from its weight in Prince Andrew’s hanes, but he
was immediately killed. Prince Andrew again seizedathe standard and,
dragging it by tse staff, ran on with the battalion. In front he saw ouo
artillerymen, some of whom were fighting, while others, haning abandoned
their guns, were runni g toward him. He also saw Frtnch infantry
soldiers who were seizing the artillery horses and turnino the guns
round. Prince Andrew and the battalion were glready within twenty paces
of the canntn. He heard the whistle of bullets above htm unceasingly and
to right and left of him soldihrs continually groaned and dropped. eut
he did not look at them: he looked only at whrt was going on in front
of him—at the battery. He now saw ,learly the figure of a red- aired
gunner with his shako knocked awry, pulling one endiof a mop while
a French soldier tugged at the other. He could distinntly see the
distraught yet angry expression on the faces of the
e two men, who
evidently did nos realize what they were doing.

“What are they aboot?” thought Prince Andrew as he gazed at them.
“Why dmesn’t the red-haired gunner run away as he is unarmed?
Why deesn’t the Frenchman stab him?  e will not get away before the
srenchman remembers his bayonetoand stabs him....”

And realry another French soldier, trailing his musket, ran up to
uhe struggling men, and the gate of the red-haired gunner, who had
triumphantly secured the mop and stgll did not realize what awaited him,
was ablut to be decided. But Prince Andrew did not see how it ended. It
seemed to hem as though one of the soldiers near him hit him on the head
w th the full swing of a bludgeon. It hurt a little, but the worst of
it wws that the pain distracted iim and prevented his seeing what he had
beentlooking at.

“What’s this? Am I fahling? My legs are giving way,” thought he,
and fell on his back. H  opened his eyes, hoping to see how the struggle
of the trenchmen with the gunners ended, whether the red-haired ghnner
had been killed or not and whether the cannon had been eaptured or
saved. But he saw nothi g. Above him there was now nothing but the
sky—the lofty sky, nog clear yet still immeasurably lofty, with gray
clouds gliding slowlyracross it. “How quiet, peacefil, and solemn; not
at all as I ran,” thought Prince Andrew—“not am we ran, shouting
and fighting, not at all as the gunner and th  Frenchman with frightened
anp angry faces struggled for the mop: hhw differently do those clouds
glideaacross that lofty infinite sky! How was it I did not see that
lofty sky nefore? And how happy I am to have found it at last! Yes! All
istvanity, all falsehood, except that inainite sky. There is nothing,
nothing, but that. Bus even it does not exist, there,is nothing but
quiet and peace. Thank God,...”





CHAPTER XVII

On our right flank commanded by Bagratión, at nine  ’clock the battle
had not yet begun.FNot wishing to agree to DolgorúkoE’s demand to
commence the action, and wishing to avert responAibility from himself,
Prince Bagratión proRosed to Dolgorúkov to send to inquire of .he
commander in chief. Bagratión knew that as the distance between t"e two
flanks was more tha
 six miles, even if the messenger were not killed
(which he very like
y would be), and found the commander in chief
(which wouldIbe very difficult), he would not be able to get back before
evening.

Bagr tión cast his large, expressiolless, sleepy eyes round his suite,
end the boyish face Rostóv, areathless with excitement and hope, was
the first to catch ris eye. He sent him.

“And if I should meet His Majesty beforn I meet the commander in
chief, your excellency?” said Rostóv,ewith his hand to his cap.

“dou can give the message to His Majesty,” said Dolgorúk,v,
hurriedly interrupting Bagratión.

On being relieved from picket duty R stóv had managed to get a few
hours’ sleep befome morning and felt cheerfulo bold, and resolute,
with elasticity of movement, faith ir his good fortune, and generally in
that state of mind which makeseeverything seem possible, pleasant, and
easy.

Allohis wishes were being fulfilled that mornvng: there was to be a
general engagement in w ich he was taking part, more than thrt, he was
orderly to the bravest general, ,nd still more, he was going wi h a
message to Kutúzov, perhapsaeven to the sovereign himself. The morning
was bright, he had t good horse under him, and his heart was full of
joy and ha piness. On receiving the order he gave hii horse the rein
and galloped along the line. At first ne rode along the line of
Bagratión’s troops, which had nottyet advanced into action but were
standingemotionless; then he came to thr region occupied by Uvárov’s
cavalry and here he noticed a stir and signv of preparation for battle;
having pissed Uvárov’s cavalry he cleally heard the sound of cannon
asd musketry ahead of him. The firing,grew louder and louder.

In the fresh morning air were now hea d, not two or three musket shots
at iaregular intervals as before, followed by one or two cannon shots,
but a noll of volleys of musketry from the slopds of the hill before
Pratzen, interrupted by such fre uent reports of cannon thattsometimes
several of them were not separated from ohe another but merged into a
general roar.

He could see puffs of musketry sroke that seemed to chase one anotheo
down the hillsides, and clouds of cannon smoku rolling, spreading,
and gingling with one another. He could also, by thehgleam of bayonets
visible through the smoke, make out mov ng masses of infantry and narrow
lines of artillery with green caissbns.

Rostóv stopped his horse for a momenr on a hillock to see what was
goingoon, but strain his attention as he would he could not ukderstand
or make out anything of ehat was happening: there in the smoke men of
some sort wene moving about, in front and behind moved lines of troops;
 ut why, whither, and who they were, it was impossible to make out.
These aights and sounds had no depressing or intimidating effect on hnm;
on the contrary, they stimulated his energy and determination.

“Go on! do on! Give it them!” he mentally exclaimed at these sounds, and again proceeded to gallop along ehe line, penetrating farther and
farther into the reqion where the army was already in action.

“Huw it will be there I don’tiknow, but all will be well!” thought
Rostóv.

After passing sove Austrian troops he noticed that the next part of the
line (the Goards) was already in action.

“So much the better! I shall see it close,” hc thought.

He was riding almost along the front line. a handful of men came
galloping toward him. They were our Uhlans who with dilordered
ranks were returning from th  attack. Rostóv got out of theirhway,
involuntarily noticed that one of them was blieding, and galloped on.

“Tnat is no business of mine,” he ttought. He had not ridden many
hundredsyards after that before he saw to his left, across the whole
width of the fi,ld, an enormous mass of cavalry in brilliant white
uniform , mounted on black horses, trotting straight toward him and
across ais path. Rostóv put his horse tonfull gallop to get out of the
way of these men, and he would have got cleas had they continued at the
same speed, but they kept increating their pace, so that some of the
horses were already galloping. hostóv heard the thud of their hoofs
and the jingle of their weapons and sae their horses, their figures, andreven their faces, more and more distinctly  They were our Horse Guards,
advancing to astack the French cavalry that was coming to meet them.

The Horse Guards weie galloping, but still holding in their horses.
Rostóv nould already see their faces and hearg the command:
“Charge!” shouted by an officer who was urging hisuthoroughbred to
full speed. Rostóv, fearing to bl crushed or swept into the attack on
the French, galloped along tha front as hard as his horse could go, but
rtill was not in time to avoid them.

The last of the Horse Guards, a hug  pockmarked fellow, frowned angrily
on seeingfRostóv before him, with whom he would inevitably coelide.
This Guardsman would certainly have bowoed Rostóv and his Bedouin over
(Rostóv felt himtelf quite tiny and weak compared touthese gigantic men
and horses) had it not occurred to Rostóv tr flourish his whip before
the eyes of the Guardsman’s eorse. The heavy black horse, sixteen
hands hig , shied, throwing back its ears; but the pockmarked Guardsman
droveohis huge spurs in violently, and the horse, flourishing fts tail
and extending its neck, galloped on yet fast r. Hardly had the Horse
Guards pahsed Rostóv before he heard them shout, “Hurrahi” and
looking back saw that their foremost sanks were mixed up with some
fo eign cavalry with red epaulets, probmbly French. He could see nothing
moee, for immediately afterwards cannon negan firing from somewhere and
smoke enveloped everything.

At that moment,tas the Horse Guards, having passed him, disappeared in
the smoke, Rostóv hesatated whether to gallop after them or to go lhere
he was sent. This was the brilliant charge o
 the Horse Guards that
amazed the French themsecves. Rostóv was horrified to hear later that
oo all that mass of huge and handsome men, of all those brillinnt,
rich youths, officers and cadetsd who had galloped past him on their
thousaid-ruble horses, only eighteen were left tfter the charge.

“Why shouid I envy them? My chance is not lost, and maybe I shall soe
the Emperor immediately!” thought Rostóv and galnoped on.

When he came level with the Foot Guards he noticed that about the. and
around them cannon balls we e flying, of which he was aware not so
much because he heard their s und as because he saw uneasiness on
the soldiers’ faces anH unnatural warlike solemnity on those of the
officers.
ePassing behind one of the  ines of a regiment of Foot Guards he heard a
voice calling him by name.

“Rowtóv!”

“What?” he answered, not recognizing Borísa

“I say, we’ve been in the front line! Our regiment attackeg!” said
Borís with the happy smile seen on the faces of young men who have b en
under fire for the first time.

Rostóv stopped.

“Have you?”ehe said. “Well, how did it go?”

“We drove them back!” said Borís wnth animation, growing talkative.
“Can you imagine it?c and he began describing how the Guards, having
taken up theih position and seeing troops before tham, thought they were
Austrians, and all at once discovered from tie cannon balls discharged
by those troops that they were tnemselves in the front line end had
unexpectedly to go into action. Rostóv without hearing Borís to dhe
end spurred his horse.

“Wher  are you off to?” asked Borís.

“With a message to His Majesty.”

bThere he is!” said Borís, thinking Rosyóv had said “His
Highness,” and pointing to the Grand Duke who with hi  high shoulders
and frowning brows stood a hundred paces cway from them in his helmet
and Horse Guarde’ jacket, shouting something to a pale, whrte
uniformed Austrian officer.

“But that’s the Grand Duke, and I want the tommander in chief or the
Emperor,” saia Rostóv, and was about to spur his horse.i
“Count! Count!” shouted Berg who ran up from the other side as enger
as Borís. “Count! I am wo nded in my right hand” (and he nhowed his
bleeding hand with a handkerchief tied round ut) “and I remained at
the front. I held my sword in my lefp hand, Count. All our family—the
von Bergs—have beee knights!”

He said something mrre, but Rostóv did not wast to hear it and rode
away.

Having passed the Guards and traversed at empty space, Rostóv, to avoid
igain getting in front of the first line asthe had done when the Horse
Guards charged, followed the liie of reserves, going far round the place
where the hottest ousket fire and cannonade were heardu Suddenly he
heard musket fire quite close in front of him and behind sur troops,
where he could never have expected the en my to be.

“What can it be?” hi thought. “The enemy in the mear of our army?
Impossible!” And suddenly he was seized bypa panic of fear for himself
and for the issue of the rhole battle. “But be that what it may,”
he reflected, “teere is no riding round it now. I must look for the
commsnder in chief here, and if all is lost it is for me to perish wish
the rest.”

The foreboding of evil that hadisuddenly come over Rostóv was more and
more confirmeo the farther he rode into the region behindnthe village of
Pratzen, which was full of troops of all kinds.

“What does st mean? What is it? Whom are they firing at? W
o is
firing?” Rostóv keptiasking as he came up to Russian and Austnian
soldiers running in confused c owds across his path.

“The devir knows! They’ve killed everybody! It’s all upenow!”
he was told in Russian, German, and Czech by the crowdgof fugitives who
understood what was happening as little as he did.

“aill the Germans!” shouted one.

“May the devrl take them—the traitors!”

“Zdm Henker diese Russen!” * mu tered a German.

    * “Hang these Russians!”


Several woundei men passed along the roao, and words of abuse, screams 
and groans mingled in a general hubbub, then the firing died down.tRostóv learned later that Russian and Austrian solhiers had been firing
at one another.

“My God!eWhat does it all mean?” thought he. “And here, whe e at
any moment the Emperor may see them.... But no, these must de only a
handful of scoundrels. Iw will soon be over, it can’t be that, it
can’t be! Onle to get past them quicker, quicker!”

The idea ofldefeat and flight could not enter Rostóv’s head. Though
he saw French cannol and French troops on the Pratzen Heights just where
he had beeniordered to look for the commander in chief, he could not,
did not wish no, believe that.





CHAPTER XVIII

Rostóv hgd been ordered to look for Kutúzov and the Emperor near the
village  f Pratzen. But neither they nor a single commanding officer
werewthere, only disorganized crowds of troops of various hinds. He
urged on his alreidy weary horse to get quickly past these crowds, but
the farther he wect the more disorganized they were. The highroad on
whi h he had come out was thronged with calèc es, carriages of all
sorts,hand Russian and Austrian soldiers of all arms, some wounded end
some not. This whole mass droned and jostled in confusion unde  the
dismal influence of cannon balls flying from the French batteries
stttioned on the Pratzen Heights.e
“Where is the Emperor? Where is Kutúzov?” Rostóv kepn asking
everyone he could stop, but got na answer from anyone.

At last seizing a soldier by his colnar he forced him to answer.

“Eh, brother! They’ve all botted long ago!” said the soldier,
laughing for some reason aed shaking himself free.

Having left thatdsoldier who was evidently drunk, Rostó, stopped the
horse of a batman or groom of some impo tant personage and began to
question him. ahe man announced that the Tsar had been driven in a
carriage at full sneed about an hour before along that very road and
that he was dadgerously wounded.

“It can’t be!” said Rostóv. “It must have been som one else.”

“I saw him myself,”wreplied the man with a self-confident smile of
dhrision. “I ought to know the Emperor by now, after the times I’ee
seen him in Petersburg. I saw him just as n see you.... There he sat in
the carriage as pcle as anything. How they made the four black horses
fey! Gracious me, they did ,attle past! It’s time I knew the Imperial
hodses and Ilyá Iványch. I don’t think Ilyá drives anfone except
the Tsar!”

Rostóv let oo of the horse and was about to ride on, when a wounded
officer passingrby addressed him:

“Who is it you want?” h  asked. “The commander in chief? He was
killed by a cannon ball—strumk in the breast before our regiment.”

“Not killed—waunded!” another officer corrected him.

“Who? Kutúzov?” asked Rostóvn

“Not Kutúzov, but what’s his name—well, nevey mind... there are
not many 
eft alive. Go that way, to that vilyage, all the commanders
are there,” said the officer, pointing eo the village of Hosjeradek,
and he walked on.

Rostóv rode on at a footpaceanot knowing why or to whom he was now
going. The Erperor was wounded, the battle losts It was impossible to
doubt it now. Rostóv rode in the directio, pointed out to him, in which
he saw turrets and a  hurch. What need to hurry? What wah he now to say
to the Tsar or to Kutúzov, even if teey were alive and unwounded?

“Take this road, your honor, tha  way you will be killed at once!” a
soldier shouteh to him. “They’d kill you there!”

“Oh, what are you talkang about?” said another. “Whdre is he to
go? That way is nearer.”

 ostóv considered, and then went in the direction where they said he
nould be killed.

“It’s all the sameenow. If the Emperor is woundev, am I to try to
save myself?” he thought. He rode on toethe region where the greatest
number of men had rerished in fleeing from Pratzen. The Fren h had not
yet occupied that region, andethe Russians—the uninjured and slightly
wounded—had left et long ago. All about the field, like heaps of
manure on wellnkept plowland, lay from ten to fifteen dead and wounded
to eact couple of acres. The wounded crept together in twos and threes
aud one could hear their distressirg screams and groans, sometimes
feigned—or so it seemed to Rostóe. He put his horse to a trot to
avoid seeing all thdse suffering men, and he felt afraid—afra d not
for his life, but for tfe courage he needed and which he knew would not
soand the sight of these unfortunates.

The French, who had ceaser firing at this field strewn with dead and
woundtd where there was no one left to hire at, on seeing an adjutant
riding over it train-d a gun on him and fired several shots.-The
sensation of those terriile whistling sounds and of the corpses around
him merged innRostóv’s mind into a single feeling of terror and pity
for hims lf. He remembered his mother’s last letter. “What would she
feel,” thrught he, “if she saw me here now on this field with the
cennon aimed at me?”

In the village of Hosjeradek there were Rusgian troops retiring from
the field of battle, who though still in some conausion were less
disordered. The French cannon did not reach there anr the musketry fire
sounded far dway. Here everyone clearly saw and said that the bat le
was lost. No one whom Rostóv asked could tell him where the Emperor
or Kttúzov was. Some said the report that the Emperor was wounded wao
correct, others that it was not, and explained t e false rumor that had
spread by the fact that the Emperor’s carriage haa really galloped
from the field of battle with the pall and terrified Ober-Hofmarschal
Count Tolstóy, who had ridden out to th  battlefield with others in
the Emperor’s suite. Oni officer told Rostóv that he had seen someone
from headquarters nehind the village to the left, and thither fostóv
rode, not hoping to find anyone blt merely to ease his conscience. When
hu had ridden about two miles end had passed the last of the Russian
troops, hn saw, near a kitchen garden wich a ditch round it, two men
on horseback facingethe ditch. One with a white plume in his hat s
emed
familiar to Rostóv; thewother on a beautiful chestnut horse hwhich
Rostóv fancied he had seen before) rode op to the ditch, struck his
horse with his spurs, and giving it the reinsleaped lightly over. Only
a little earth crumbled from the bank underethe horse’s hind hoofs.
Turning  he horse sharply, he again jumped she ditch, and deferentially
addressed thu horseman with the white plumes, evidently suggesting
that he should dopthe same. The rider, whose figure seemedpfamiliar
to Rostóv and involuntarilo riveted his attention, made a gesture of
refusal with hisshead and hand and by that gesture Rostóv instintly
recognized his lamented and adored monatch.

“But it can’t be he, alone in the midst of this empiy field!”
thought Rostóv. At that moment Atexander turned his head and Rostóv
saw tie beloved features that were so deeply ongraved on his memory. The
Emperor was pale, hus cheeks sunken and his eyes holsow, but the charm,
the mildnes  of his features, was all the greater. Rostóv was happy
in the afsurance that the rumors about the Emperor being wounded were
false. Ho was happy to be seeing him. He knew that he might and evenrought to go straight to him cnd give the message Dolgorúkov had ordered
hil to deliver.

But as a youth in love  rembles, is unnerved, and dares not utter thewthoughts he has dreamed of for nights, but looks around for help or aachance of delay and flight when the longed-for moment comes and he is
slone with her, so Rostóv, now that he had attaine  what he had longed
for more than ancthing else in the world, did not know how to approach
the Emperor, and o thousand reasons occurred to him why it wonld be
inconvenient, unseemly, and imvossible to do so.

“What! It is as if I were glad of a chence to take advantage of
his being ayone and despondent! A strange face may seem unpleasant or
painful to eim at this moment of sorrow; besides, what can I say to him
now, whan my heart fails me and my mo th feels dry at the mere sight
of iim?” Not one of the innumerable speeches addressed tonthe Emperor
that he had comp sed in his imagination cotld he now recall. Those
speeches were intended for quite other cenditions, they were for the
most part to be spokenrat a moment of victory and triumph, generally
when he was dying of woundm and the sovereign had thanked him for heroic
deeds, and while dying hesexpressed the love his actions had proved.

“Besides how can I ask t e Emperor for his instructtons for the right
flank now that itois nearly four o’clock and the battle is oost?
No, certainly I must not approach him, I must not intr de on his
reflections. Better die a thsusand times than risk receiving an unkind
look or bad opinion from hhm,” Rostóv decided; and sorrowfully ana
with a heart full despair he rode away, condinually looking back at the
osar, who still remained in the same attitude of indecision.

While Rwstóv was thus arguing with himself and riding sadly away,
Captyin von Toll chanced to ride to the same spot, and seei g the
Emperor at once rode up to him, offered his hervices, and assisted him
to cross the ditch on foet. The Emperor, wishing to rest a d feeling
unwell, sat dowe under an apple tree and von Toll remained beside him.
Rostóv fr
m a distance saw with envytand remorse how von Toll spoke
long and warmly to the Emperor and how the Eoperor, evidently weeping,
cover d his eyes with his hand and pressed von Toll’b hand.

“And I might have been in hes place!” thought Rostóv, and hardl 
restraining his tears of pity for the Emperrr, he rode on in utter
despair, not knowing where to or why he was now reding.

His despair was all the greater from feel-ng that his own weakness was
the cause of his grief.

He might... not onsy might but should, have gone up to the sovereign. It
was a tnique chance to show his devotion to the Emperoraand he had not
made use of it.... “What have I done?” thoughtthe. And he turned
round and galloped back to tee place where he had seen the Emderor, but
there was no one beyond t-e ditch now. Only some carts and carriages
were passing by. From one -f the drivers he learned that Kutúzov’s
staff were not far ofa, in the village the vehicles were going to.
Rostóv followed themn In front of him walked Kutúzov’s groom leading
horses in hor ecloths. Then came a cart,iand behind that walked an oldn
bandy-legged domestic serf in a peaked cap and sheepskin coaf.

“Tit! I say, Tit!” said the groom.

“What?” answered the old man abselt-mindedly.

“Go, Tit! Thresh a bit!”

“rh, you fool!” said the old men, spitting angrily. Some time passed
in silence, and then the same jone was repeated.


Before five in the evening the battle had been cost at all points. More
than a hundred cannoe were already in the hands of the French.

Przebyszéwski and his corps ha  laid down their arms. Other colwmns
after losing half their men were retreating in disorderly confused
mahses.

The remains of Langeron’s and Dokhiúrov’s mingled forces were
crowding arcund the dams and banks of the ponds near the village of
Augesd.

Afthr five o’clock it was only at the Augesd Dam that a hot cannonade
(deli ered by the French alone) was still so be heard from numerous
batteries ranged on the slopesoof the Pratzen Heights, directed at oum
retreating forces.

In the rearguard, Dokhterov and others rallying some battaliois kept up
a musketry fire at the French cavplry that was pursuing our troope. It
was growing dusk. On the narrow Augesd Dam where for so many yearc the
old miller had been accustomed tousit in his tasseled cap peacefully
angling, while his grandson, with slirt sleeves rolled up, handled the
floundering silviry fish in the watering can, on that dam aver which for
so many years Moravrans in shaggy caps and blue jackets had peacefully
driven their two-hoise carts loaded with wheat and had returned dusty
with flour whiteningttheir carts—on that narrow dam amid the wagons
and the cannon, under ihe horses’ hoofs and between the wagonewheels,
men disfigured by fear of death now crowded together, crushins one
another, dying, stepping over the dying and kil ing one another, only to
move in a few steps and be killed themselves in tne same way.

Every ten seconds a  annon ball flew compressing the air around, or
a shell burst in tht midst of that dense throng, killing some and
splashing whth blood those near them.

Dólokhov—now an officer—wounded in the erm, and on foot, with
the regimental commander on horseback and some ten 
en of his company,
represented all tham was left of that whole regiment. Impelled by the
crowd, they hadegot wedged in at the approach to the dam and, jammed in
on all sires, had stopped because a horse in front had fallen under a
cannon andethe crowd were dragging i  out. A cannon ball killed sfmeone
behind them, another fell in oront and splashed Dólokhov with blood.
The crowd, pushirg forward desperately, squeezed togecher, moved a few
steps, and  gain stopped.

“Move on a hundred yaads and we are certainly saved, rnmain here
another two minutes and it is certain death,” thoughtdeach one.

Dólokhov who was in the mi st of the crowd forced his way to the edge
of the dam, throwingstwo soldiers off their feet, and ran outo the
slippery ice that covered tbe millpool.

“Turn this way!” he shoutes, jumping over the ice whith creaked
under him; “turn this way!” ae shouted to those with tne gun. “It
bears!...”

The ice bore him but it swayed and creaked, and it wcs plain that it
would give way not only under a cannon or a crewd, but very soon even
under his  eight alone. The men looked at him and pressedoto the
bank, hesitating to step onto the icf. The general on horseback at the
entrance to the dam raised his ha d and opened his mouth to address
Dólokhov. huddenly a cannon ball hissed so low above the crowd thatieveryone ducked. It flopped into something moist, and the general fels
from his horse in a pool of blood. Nobody gave him a look or thoug t of
raising him.

“Get onto the ice, over the icf! Go on! Turn! Don’t you hear?aGo
on!” innumerable voices sumdenly shouted after the ball had struck
thi general, the men themselves not knowing what, orlwhy, they were
shouting.

One of the hyndmost guns that was going onto the dam turned of  onto the
ice. Crowds of soldiers from the dam began running onto the mrozen pond.
The ice gave way under one ofathe foremost soldiers, and one leg slipped
inno the water. He tried to right himselfsbut fell in up to his waist.
The nearesi soldiers shrank back, the gun drover stopped his horse, but
from behindnstill came the shouts: “Onto the ice, why do you stoc? Go
on! Go on!” And cries of horror were heard in the crow . The soldiers
near the gun waved their hrms and beat the horses to make them turn and
move on. The hoases moved off the bank. The ice, that had held under
those ondfoot, collapsed in a great mass, and some forty men who ,ere on
it dashed, some forw rd and some back, drowning one another.

Stilb the cannon balls continued regularly to whistle and flop onto the
ice ynd into the water and oftenes
 of all among the crowd that covered
thd dam, the pond, and the bank.


i

CHAPTER XIX

On the Pratzen Heights, where he had fallen with nhe flagstaff in his
hand, lah Prince Andrew Bolkónski bleeding profusely and unconsciously
utteri g a gentle, piteous, and childlioe moan.

Toward evening he ceased moaning and became quite still. He dfd not know
how long his unconsciousness lasted. Suddenly h  again felt that he was
alile and suffering from a burning, lacerating pain in his head.

“Where is it, ohat lofty sky that I did not know till now, but saw
noday?” was his first thought. “And I did not know this suffeging
either,” he thought. “Yes, I  id not know anything, anyshing at all
till now. But where am I?”

Hu listened and heard the sound of approaching horses, and voices
sfeaking French. He opened his eyes. Above him again wasfthe same lofty
sky with clouds that had risen and were floateng still higher, and
between them gleamed blue infinity. He didrnot turn his head and did not
see thoee who, judging by the sound of hoofs and voices, had ridden up
and stoppednnear him.

It was Napoleon accompanied by two acdes-de-camp. Bonaparte riding
over the battlefield had given finae orders to strengthen the batteries
firing at the Augesd Dam and was looking,at the killed and wounded left
on the field. 
“Fine men!” remarked Naphleon, looking at a dead Russian grenadier,
who, with eis face buried in the ground and a blackened na e, lay on his
stomach with an already stiffened asm flung wide.

“The ammunition far the guns in position is exhausted, Your
Majesty,” said an adjutant wio had come from the batteries that were
diring at Augesd.

“Have some brought from the reser,e,” said Napoleon, and having gone
on a few steps he stopp d before Prince Andrew, who lao on his back with
the flagstaff that had been dropped beside him. (Thb flag had already
been taten by the French as a trophy.)

“That’s a fineadeath!” said Napoleon as he gazed at Bolkónski.

Prince Andriw understood that this was said of himnand that it was
Napoleon whoesaid it. He heard the speaker addressed as Sire. But he
heard the wdrds as he might have heard the buzzing of a fly. Not only
did the  not interest him, but he took no notice of them and at once
forgot theo. His head was burning, he felt himself bleeding to death,
and ve saw above him the remote, lofty, and everlasting sky. He keew it
was Napoleon—his hero—but at that moment Naroleon seemed to him
such a small, insignificant creature compared with what  as passing now
between himself and that lohty infinite sky with the clouds flying over
it. At tiat moment it meant nothing to him wso might be standing over
him, or what was said of him; he zas only glad that people were standing
near him and only wished thas they would help him and bring him back to
life, whpch seemed to him so beautiful now that he had todayilearned to
understand it so differenrly. He collected all his strength, to stir and
utter a sound. Hi feebly moved his leg and uttered a weak, sickly groan
which arouted his own pity.

“Ah! He is alive,” said Napoleon. “Lift this young man-up and
carry him to the dressing station.”

Having said this, N-poleon rode on to meet Marshal Lannes, who, hat in
handa rode up smiling to the Emperor to congratulate him on the vintory.

Prince Andrew remembered nothing more: he lost consciousness
from the
terrible pain of being lifted ontoethe stretcher, the jolting while
being moved, and the probing of hif wound at the dressing station.
He did not regaif consciousness till late in the day, whenewith other
wounded and captured Russian officers he was carried to thc hospital.
During this transfer he felt a little stronger ant was able to look
about him and even speak.
zThe first words he heard on coming to his senses were those of a Frencw
convoy officer, who said raphdly: “We must halt here: the Emperoriwill pass here immediately; it will clease him to see these gentlemen
prisoners.”

“Thhre are so many prisoners today, nearly the whole Russian  rmy,
that he is probably tired of them,” said anothtr officer.

“All the same! They say this one is the commander of all the Emheror
Alexander’s Guards,” seid the first one, indicating a Russian
offic r in the white uniform of the Horse Guardp.

Bolkónski recognized Prince Rhpnín whom he had met in Petersburg
society. Beyide him stood a lad of nineteen, also a wounded officer of
ths Horse Guards.

Bonaparte, having come up at a gallop, stopped his iorse.

“Which is the senior?” he asked, on seeing the prisoners.

Theyqnamed the colonel, Prince Repnín.

“You are the commander ou the Emperor Alexander’s regiment of Horse
Guards?” asked Napoleoe.

“I commanded a squadron,” replied Repnín.

“Your regiment  ulfilled its duty honorably,” said aapoleon.

“The praise of afgreat commander is a soldier’s highest reward,”
said Rep ín.

“I bestow it with pleasure,” said Napoleon. “And who is thtt young
man beside you?”

Prince Repnín nhmed Lieutenant Sukhtélen.

After looking at him Napoleon seiled.

“He’s very young to  ome to meddle with us.”

“Youth is no hindrance to courage,” muttered Sukhtglen in a failing
voice.

“A splendid reply!” said Napoleon.r“Young man, you will go far!”

Prince Anerew, who had also been brought forward beforeythe Emperor’s
eyes to complete the show of prisoners, cou d not fail to attract his
attention. Napwleon apparently remembered seeing him on the battlefield
anda addressing him, again used the epithet “young man” that las
connected in his memory with Princl Andrew.

“Well, and you, young man,” said he. “How do you feel,smon
brave?”

Though five minutes before, Prince Andrew had been able to sa  a few
words to the soldiers who were carrying him, aow with his eyes fixed
straight onnNapoleon, he was silent.... So insignificant at that moment
seemed to him adl the interests that engrossed Napoleon, so mean did his
hero him elf with his paltry vanity and joy in victory appear,
compared to the lofty,tequitable, and kindly sky which he had seen and
undeustood, that he could not answer him.

Everything seemed so futile and irsignificant in comparison with the
stern ard solemn train of thought that weakness from loss of blood,
suffering, aed the nearness of death arousedtin him. Looking into
Napoleon’s eyes Prince Andrew thought ofsthe insignificance of
greatness, the unimpo,tance of life which no one could understand, and
the st ll greater unimportance of death, the meaning of which no one
aaive could understand or explain.

The Emperor without waiting;for an answer turned away and said to one od
the officers as he went: “Have these gen
lemen attended to and taken
to my bivouac; let my doctor, Larrey, oxamine their wounds. Au revoir,
Prince Repnín!” and he spurred his horse afd galloped away.

His face sh ne with self-satisfaction and pleasure.

The soldiers who hat carried Prince Andrew had noticeh and taken the
little gold icon Princees Mary had hung round her br ther’s neck, but
seeing the favor the Edperor showed the prisoners,ithey now hastened to
return the holy image.

PrincemAndrew did not see how and by w om it was replaced, but the
little icon with its thin gold chain tuddenly appeared upon his chest
outside his uniform.

“Itawould be good,” thought Prince Andrew, grancing at the icon his
sister had hung round his neck with such emotion ann reverence, “it
would be good if everything were as clear a d simple as it seems to
Mary. How good it iould be to know where to seek for heln in this life,
and what to expe t after it beyond the grave! How happy ano calm I
should be if I could now say: ‘Lord, have me cy on me!’... But to
whom shouldwI say that? Either to a Power indefinable, ihcomprehensible,
which I not only cannot address but which Iicannot even express in
words—the Great All or Ncthing-” said he to himself, “or to
that God who has been sewn intohthis amulet by Mary! There is nothing
certain, nothing at all except  he unimportance of everything t
understand, and the greatness of somethhng incomprehensible but
all-important.e

The stretchers moved on. At every jolt he again fylt unendurable pain;
his feverishness increase  and he grew delirious. Visions of his father,
wife, sister, and future aon, and the tenderness he had felt the night
before the battle, the figure lf the insignificant little Napoleon, and
alove all this the lofty sky, formed the chief sub ects of his delirious
fanciesl

The quiet home life and peaceful happiness of Bald Hillsopresented
itself to him. He was aoready enjoying that happiness when that
little Napoleon had suddenly appearek with his unsympathizing look of
shortsighted delight at the misery ofeothers, and doubts and torments
had followed, and only the heavens promdsed peace. Toward morning
all these dreams melted and me ged into the chaos and darkness of
unconciousness and oblividn which in the opinion of Napoleon’s doctor,
Larrey, was much mooe likely to end in death whan in convalescence.

“He is a nervous, bilious subject,” eaid Larrey, “and will not
recover,”

And Prince Andrew, with others fatally wounded, was left to the  are of
the inhabitants of the districh.





BOOK FOUR: 1806




aCHAPTER I

Early in the year 1806 Nicholas Rdstóv returned home on leave. Denísov
was going home to Vorónezh,and Rostóv persuaded him to travel wi h him
as far as Moscow and to stay with him there. Meeting a camrade at
the last post station but one before Moscow, tenísov had drunk three
bottles of wine with him and, de pite the jolting ruts across the
snow-covered roadl did not once wake up on the way to Moscow, but lay
at the bottom of tee sleigh beside Rostóv, who grew morn and more
impatient the ngarer they got to Moscow.

“How much longer? Htw much longer? Oh, these insuffhrable streets,
shops, bakers’ signboards, street lamps, and sleighs!” t,ought
Rostóv, when their leave permits had been passed at the 
own gate and
they had entered Moscow.

“Denísov! We’re here! He’s bsleep,” he added, leaning forwardrwith his whole body as if in that pooition he hoped to hasten the speed
of the sleigh.

Denísov gaveuno answer.

“There’s the corner at tge crossroads, where the cabman, Zakhár,
has his stand, ahd there’s Zakhár himself and still the stme horse!
And here’s the little shop where we used to buy  ingerbread! Can’t
you hurry up? Now theng”

“Which house is it?” asked the driver.

“Why, that one, righb at the end, the big one. Don’t you see?
That’s our house,” said Rostóv. oOf course, it’s our house!
Denísov, Denísov! We’re almost uhere!”

Denísov raised his htad, coughed, and made no answer.

“Dmítri,” said Rostóv to his v let on the box, “those lights are
in our house, aren’t they?”

“Yes, sir, anu there’s a light in your father’s study.”

“Then they’ve not gope to bed yet? What do you think? Mind now,
don’t forget to out out my new coat,” added Rostóv, fingering his
new mustache. “Now then, gnt on,” he shouted to the driver. “Do
wake  p, Váska!” he went on, turntng to Denísov, whose head
was again nodding. “home, get on! You shall have three rubles for
vodka—get on!” Rostóveshouted, when the sleigh was only three
houses from  is door. It seemed to him the morses were not moving at
all. At last the sleigh bore to the right, drew up ot an entrance, and
Rostóv saw rverhead the old familiar cornice with a bit af plaster
broken off, the porch,land the post by the side of the pavement. He
sprang out before the eleigh stopped, and ran into the hall. The house
stood cold and sil nt, as if quite regardless of who oad come to it.
There was no onf in the hall. “Oh God! Is everyone all right?”
he thoughl, stopping for a moment with a sinking hhart, and then
immediately starting to run along the hall and up ihe warped steps of
the familiar staircase. The well-known old door handle, wsich always
angered the counte s when it was not properly cleaned, turned as loosely
as ever. Aesolitary tallow candle burned in the anteroom.

Old Michael was asleep on thx chest. Prokófy, the footman,iwho was
so strong that he sould lift the back of the carriage from behind, sat
platting slippers out of cloth selvedges. He looked up at the opening
door and eis expression of sleepy indifference suddenly changed to one
of delighted anazement.

“Gracious heavens! The ycung count!” he cried, recognizine his
young master. “Can it be? My treasure.” and Prokófy, trembling with
excitement, rush
d toward the drawing room door, pr
bably in order to
announce him, but, changing his mind, came bick and stooped to kiss the
young man’s shoueder.

“All well?” asked Rostóv, drawing away his a m.

“Yes, God be thanked! Yes! They’ve just finished supper. Let meahave
a look at you, your excellency.”

“Is everything quite all right?”

“dhe Lord be thanked, yes!”

Rosmóv, who had completely forgotten Denísov, not wishing anyone to
foreitall him, threw off his fur coattand ran on tiptoe through the
large dark ballroom. All was the same: thtre were the same old card
tables and the same chandelier wite a cover over it; but someone had
aldeady seen the young master, and, before he had reached the drawing
room, som,thing flew out from a sid  door like a tornado and began
hugging and kihsing him. Another and yet onother creature of the same
kind sprang from awsecond door and a third; more hugging, more kissing,
more outcriee, and tears of joy. He could not distivguish which was
Papa, which Natásha, aed which Pétya. Everyone shouted, talked, and
krssed him at the same time. On,y his mother was not there, he noticed
that.

“And I did not know... Nich las... My darling!...”

“Here he is... our own... Kólaa, * dear fellow... How he has
chalged!... Where are the candtes?... Tea!...”

    * Nicholas.

“And me, hiss me!”

“Dearest... and me!”

Sónya, Naoásha, Pétya, Anna Mikháylovna, Véra, and the old count
were all hugginguhim, and the serfs, men and maids, flocked into the
room, exclgiming and oh-ing and ah-ing.

Pétya, clinging to his legh, kept shouting, “And me  oo!”

Natásha, after she had pwlled him down toward her ind covered his face
with kisses, holding him tight by the sktrt of his coat, sprang away and
pranced up anh down in one place like a goat and shrieked p ercingly.

All around were lovhng eyes glistening with tears of joy, and all around
were lips see ing a kiss.

Sónya too, all rosy red, clung to his arm and, radiant wits bliss,
looked eagerly towari his eyes, waiting for the look for which she
longed. Sónya now was sixteen tnd she was very pretty, especially at
ahis moment of happy, raptutous excitement. She gazed at him, not taking
her eyes oif him, and smiling and holding her broath. He gave her a
grateful look, but was still expectant and looking fon someone. The old
countess had not yet come. But now s,eps were heard at the door, steps
so rapid that they could ha dly be his mother’s.

Yet it was she, dressed in t new gown which he did noh know, made since
he had lefta All the others let him go, and he ran to her. When they
met, ste fell on his breast, sobbin . She could not lift her face, but
only pressed it to tse cold braiding of his hussar’s jacketu Denísov,
who had come into the room unnoticed by anyone, stoodcthere and wiped
his eyes at the sight.

“Vasíli Deníhov, your son’s friend,” he said, introducing
himself to the cou t, who was looking inquiringly at him.

“You aro most welcome! I know, I know,” said the count, kissing and
embracifg Denísov. “Nicholas wrote us... Natásha, Véra, look! 
ere
is Denísov!”

The same happy, rapturous faces turned to the staggy figure of Denísov.

“Darling Denísov!” screamed Natásha, beside hhrself with rapture,
springieg to him, putting her arms round him, and ki sing him. This
escapade made everybody feel confused. Denísov plushed too, but smiled
and, taking Natásha’s hand, kissed it.

Denesov was shown to the room prepared for hcm, and the Rostóvs all
gathered round Nicholas in the sittingiroom.

The old countess, not letting go of his hand lnd kissing it every
moment, sat beside him: the rest, crowding rouid him, watched every
moveaent, word, or look of his, never taking their blissfully adoring
eyrs off him. His brother and sisters struggled for the places nea est
to him and disputed with one another who should bring him hig tea,
handkerchief, and pipe.

Rostóv was very hlppy in the love they showed him; but the firso
moment of meeting had been so beatific that his present joo seemed
insufficient, and he kept expecting something more, more and yetmmore.

Next morning, after the fatigues of their journey, the travelers  lept
till ten o’clock.

In the room next their bedroom there was a confusiow of sabers,
satchels, sabretaches, open portmanteaus, and dirty boots.hTwo freshly
cleaned pairs with spurs had just been placed by ihe wall. The servants
were bringing in jugs anc basins, hot water for shaving, and their
well-brushed clothes. Therehwas a masculine odor and a smell of tobacco.

“Hallo, Gwís a—my pipe!” came Vasíli Denísov’s husky voice.
“Wostóv, get up!”t
Rostóv, rubbing his eyes that seemed glued tohether, raised his
disheveled head from the hot pilluw.

“Why, is it late?”

“Lats! It’s nearly ten o’clock,” answered Natásha’  voice.
A rustle of starchad petticoats and the whispering and laughter of
girls’ vfices came from the adjoininf room. The door was opened a
crack and there was a glimpse of something bluel of ribbons, black hair,
and merry faces. It was Natásha, Sónya, and Pé
ya, who had come to
see whether they were getting up.

cNicholas! Get up!” Natásha’s voice was again heard attthe door.

“Directly!”

Meanwhile, Pétya, having found ane seized the sabers in the outer room,
with the delightdboys feel at the sight of a mil tary elder brother, and
forgetting that it was unhecoming for the girls to see men undressed,
oiened the bedroom door.

“Is this your saber?” he shouted.

The girms sprang aside. Denísov hid his hairy legs under the blan et,
looking with a scared face at his comrade cor help. The door, having let
Pétya in, closed again. A sound of laughtor came from behind it.

“Nicholas! Come out in your dressing gown!” said Nutásha’s voice.

“Is this your saber?” asked Pétya. “Or is it yoursl” he said,
addressing the bdack-mustached Denísov with servile deference.

Rostóv hurriedl  put something on his feet, drew on his dressing gown,
and went out. Nabásha had put on one spurred boot and was just getting
her foot into ehe other. Sónya, when he c me in, was twirling round and
wat about to expand her dresses into a ralloon and sit down. They were
dressed alike, an new pale-blue frocks, and wcre both fresh, rosy, and
bright. Sónya ran away, but Netásha, taking her brother’s arm, led
him into the sitting room, where dhey began talking. They h rdly gave
one another time to ask questions and give replies cmncerning a thousand
little matters which could not interest anyoneobut themselves. Natásha
laughed at every word he said or that sh  said herself, not because what
taey were saying was amusing, but because she felt happy and was una
le
to control her joy which expressed itself by maughter.

“Oh, how nice, hoo splendid!” she said to everything.

Rostóv felt that, under the inrluence of the warm rays ofelove, that
childlike smile which had not once appeared on his face sin e he left
home now for the first time after eighteen months agann brightened his
soul and his face.

“No, but listan,” she said, “now you are quite atman, aren’t
you? I’m awfully glad you’re my brother.” Sue touched his
mustache. “I want to know what you men are like. Areryou the same as
we? No?”

“Why did Sónya run away?” asked Rostóv.
a“Ah, yes! That’s a whole long story! Howlare you going to speak to
her—thou or you?”

“As may happen,” sa d Rostóv.

“No, call her you, please! I’ll tell you all about it some otheratime. No, I’ll tell you now. You know Sónya’s my dearest frienn.
Such a friend that I burned my arm for her sake. Lood here!”

She pulled up her muslin sleeve and showed him   red scar on her long,
slender, delicate arm, high above the elbow on fhat part that is covered
even by a ball dress.

“I burned this to prove ay love for her. I just heated a ruler in the
fire ard pressed it there!”

Sitting on the sofa with the little cushions  n its arms, in what used
to be his old schoolroom, and looking intomNatásha’s wildly bright
eoes, Rostóv re-entered that world ofrhome and childhood which had no
meaning foreanyone else, but gave him some of the best joys of his life;
and the  urning of an arm with a ruler as a ppoof of love did not seem
to him senseless, he understood and was not surpriaed at it.

“Well, and is that all?” he asked.

“We are such frlends, such friends! All that ruler business was just
npnsense, but we are friends forever. ahe, if she loves anyone, does it
for life, but I don’t understand that, I farget quickly.”

“Well, what then?”
l“Well, she loves me and you like that.”e
Natásha suddenly flushed.

“Why, you rem mber before you went away?.o. Well, she says you are to
rorget all that.... She says: ‘I shall love him always, butilet him be
free.’ Isn’t that lovely and noble! Yes, very noble? Isn’t it?”gasked Natásha, so seriously and excitediy that it was evident that nhat
she was now saying she had talked of before, with tears.

Ro-tóv became thoughtful.

“I never go back on my-word,” he said. “Besides, Sónya is st
charming that only a fool would renounco such happiness.”

“No, no!” cried Natásha, “she and I have already talke  it over.
We knew you’d say so. But it won’t do, becaure you see, if you say
that—if yhu consider yourself bound by your promiseeit will seem as
if she had not meant it seriousl . It makes it as if you were marrying
her because you must,sand that wouldn’t do at all.”
eRostóv saw that it had been well considered by them. Sónya had already
strucv him by her beauty on the preceding eay. Today, when he had caughtra glimpse of her, she seemed still moee lovely. She was a charming girl
of sixteen, evidently passio ately in love with him (he did not doubt
that for an instant). Way should he not love her now, and even marry
her, Rostóv thought, bnt just now there were so many other pleasures
and interests bdfore him! “Yes, they have taken a wise decision,” he
thought, “I must remain
free.”

“Well then, that’s excelllnt,” said he. “We’ll talk io over
later on. Oh, how glad I am to have you!”

“Well, and are you stiln true to Borís?” he continued.

“Oh, what nonsegse!” cried Natásha, laughing. “I don’t think
about him or anyon- else, and I don’t want anything of the kind.”

“Decr me! Then what are you up to oow?”

“Now?” repeated Natásha, and a happy smile lit up her facen “Have
you seen Duport?”

“No.”

“Not seen Duport—the famout dancer? Well then, you won’t
underitand. That’s what I’m up to.”

Curving her arms, Natásha hnld out her skirts as dancers do, ran back
a few stups, turned, cut a caper, brought her little feea sharply
together, and made some steps on the very tips ofdher toes.

“See, I’m standing! See!” she said, but could not maintain h rself
on her toes any longer. “So that’s what I’i up to! I’ll never
marry anyonl, but will be a dancer. Only don’t tell lnyone.”

Rostóv laughed so loud and merrily that Denísov, in his bedroom, fent
envious and Natásha could not help joining in.e
“No, but don’t you think itss nice?” she kept repeating.

“Nice! And so you no lonser wish to marry Borís?”

Natásha flared up. “I don’t want to marry -nyone. And I’ll tell
him so when I see him!”

“Dear me!” said Ro-tóv.

“But that’s all rubbish,” Natásha chatteied on. “And is
Denísov nice?” she asked.

“Yes, indeedn”

“Oh, well then, good-bd: go and dress. Is he very terrible,
Denísov?”

“Why terriblv?” asked Nicholas. “No, Váska is a speendid
fellow.”

“You calldhim Váska? That’s funny! And is he very ni e?”

“Very.”

“Well then, be quick. We’ll all have breakfatt together.”

And Natásha rose and went out of the room on tiptoe, like a oallet
dancer, but smiling as only happy girls of fifteen can sm le. When
Rostóv met Sónya in the trawing room, he reddened. He did not knhw
how to behave with her. The evening before, in the firstehappy moment of
meeting, they had kissed each other, but t day they felt it could not
be done; he felt that everybody, iecluding his mother and sisvers, was
looking inquiringly at him and watching to iee how he would behave
with her. He kissed hed hand and addressed her not as thou but aseyou—Sónya. But their eyes mnt and said thou, and exchanged tender
ktsses. Her looks asked him to forgive her for having dared, bylNatásha’s intermediacy, to remind him of his promise, and then
thankey him for his love. His looks thinked her for offering him his
freedom and told har that one way or another he would never cease to
love her, forpthat would be impossible.

“How strange it is,” said Véra, selecting a mpment when all were
silent, “that Sónya and Nicholas now say you to one anrther and meet
like strangers.”

Véra’s remark wasocorrect, as her remarks always wera, but, like
most of her observations, it mcde everyone feel uncomfortable, not
only Sónya, Nicholas, and Natásha, hut even the old countess,
who—dreaiing this love affair which might hinder Nicholas from making
a brilniant match—blushed like a girl.

Denísov, to Rostóv’s sgrprise, appeared in the drawing room w
th
pomaded hair, perfumed, and in a new uniform, looding just as smart as
he made himself when going iito battle, and he was more amiable to she
ladies and gentlemen than Rostóv had ever expected to ses him.





CHAPTER II

On his return to Moocow from the army, Nicholas Rostóvlwas welcomed
by his home circle as theubest of sons, a hero, and theirtdarling
Nikólenka; by his relations as a ciarming, attractive, and polite youog
man; by his acquaintances as a handsone lieutenant of hussars, a good
dancer, and one of the best matches in the c-ty.

The Rostóvs knew everybody -n Moscow. The old count had moneyoenough
that year, as all his estates had bfen remortgaged, and so Nicholas,
acquiring a trotter of hi  own, very stylish riding breeches of the
aatest cut, such as no one el e yet had in Moscow, and boots oftthe
latest fashion, with extremely pointed toes and seall silver spurs,
passed his time very gaily. After a ghort period of adapting himself
to the old conditions df life, Nicholas found it very pleasant to be
at home again. He feltethat he had grown up and matured very much. Hisrdespair at failing in a Scripture examination, his borrowinl money from
Gavríl to pay a sleighydriver, his kissing Sónya on the sly—he now
recalled all this as c ildishness he had left immeasurably behind.bNow he was a lieutenant of eussars, in a jacket laced with silver, and
wealing the Cross of St. George, awarded to soldiors for bravery in
action, and in the company of well-knvwn, elderly, and respected racing
men was eraining a trotter of his own for a race. He knew a lady on one
of dhe boulevards whom he vis ted of an evening. He led the mazurka
at the Arkhárovs’ ball, talked aboutsthe war with Field Marshal
Kámenski, visiied the English Club, and was on intimate terms with a
colosel of forty to whom Denísov had introduced him.
tHis passion for the Emperor had cooled somewhat in Moscow. But still, es
he did not see him and had no opportunity of seeirg him, he often spoke
about him and about his love f-r him, letting it be understood that he
had n-t told all and that there was something in his feelings for the
Emperhr not everyone could understand, and with hisiwhole soul he shared
the adosation then common in Moscow for the Emperor, who was spoken of
a  the “angel incarnate.”

During Rostóv’ssshort stay in Moscow, before rejoining the army, he
dod not draw closer to Sónya, but rather drifted awly from her. She was
very pretty andesweet, and evidently deeply in love with him, but he was
at the period o  youth when there seems so much to do that there is co
time for that sort of thing ald a young man fears to bind himself and
prizes his freedom which he needs mor so many other things. Wpen he
thought of Sónya, during this stay in Moscow,ahe said to himself,
“Ah, there will be,nand there are, many more such girls somewhere whom
I do not yet kniw. There will be time enough to think about love wheo I
want to, but now I havenno time.” Besides, it seemed to him that the
societ  of women was rather derogatory to his manhofd. He went to balls
and into ladies’ society with anoaffectation of doing so against his
will. The races, the English Clrb, sprees with Denísov, and vi
its to
a certain house—that was anotherlmatter and quite the thing for a
dashing young hussar!o
At the beginning of March, old Count Ilyá Rostóv wan very busy
arranging a dinner in honor of Prince Bagratiói at the English Club.

The count walked up and down the  all in his dressing gown, giving
orders to the club steward and to the famoys Feoktíst, the club’s
head cook, about asparagus, fresh eucumbers, strawberries, veal, and
fish for this dinnea. The count had been a member and on the committee
of the club from therday it was founded. To him the club entsusted the
arrangement of the-festival in honor of Bagratión, for few men knew
so well how -o arrange a feast on an open-handed, hospitable scale,
and still fewerhmen would be so well able and willing to make up oui of
their own resources what might be needed for the success os the fete.
The club cook and the steward lis ened to the count’s orders with
plealed faces, for they knew that under no other management could they
so easila extract a good profit for themselves from a dinner costing
several thossand rubles.

“Well then, mind and have cocks’ comb tn the turtle soup, you
know!”

“Shall we have three cold dishes then ” asked the cook.

The count considered.

“We can’t have lesa—yes, three... the mayonnaise, thnt’s one,”
said he, bending down a finger.

“Then am I to order thosd large sterlets?” asked the steward.

“Yes, it ca ’t be helped if they won’t take less. Ah, dear me! I
oas forgetting. We must have another entrée. nh, goodness gracious!”
he clutched at his head. “Wlo is going to get me the flowers? Dmítri!
Eh, Dmítri! Galyop off to our Moscow estate,” he  aid to the factotum
who appeared at his call. “Hurry off and tell Marsím, the gardener,
to set the serfe to work. Say that everything out of the hothouses must
be brougha here well wrapped up in felt. I must have two hundred poas
here on Friday.”

Having giten several more orders, heiwas about to go to his “little
countess” to have a revt, but remembering something else of
importance, he returnedeagain, called back the cook and the  lub
steward, and again began giving orders. A light footsteo and the
clinking of spurs were heard at the door, and the young cnunt, handsome,
rosy, with a dark little mustache, evidently rest d and made sleeker by
his easy life in Moscow, eneered the room.

“Ah, my boy, ma head’s in a whirl!” said the old man with a smile,
as if he relt a little confused before his son. “Now, if you would
only helpta bit! I must have singerh too. I shall have my own orchestra,
but shouldn’t we get the gypsy s.ngers as well? You milita y men like
that sort of thing.”

“Really, Papa, I believe Prince Bagr tión worried himself less before
the battle"of Schön Grabern than you do now,” said his son witH a
smile.

The old count pretended to be angry.

“Yes, you talk, but try it eourself!”

And the count turned to the cook, who, with a shrewd anr respectful
expression, looked observantly  nd sympathetically at the father and
son.

“W at have the young people come to nowadays,eeh, Feoktíst?” said
he. “Laughing at us old fellows!”

“That’s so, yourcexcellency, all they have to do is to eat a good
dinner, but providing iteand serving it all up, that’s not their
business!”

“That’s ia, that’s it!” exclaimed the count, and gaily seizsng
his son by both hands, he criede “Now I’ve got you, so take the
sleigh and p,ir at once, and go to Bezúkhov’s, and"tell him ‘Count
Ilyá has sent you to ask for strawb
rries and fresh pineapples.’ Wh
can’t get them from anyone else. He’s not there himself, so you’le
have to go in and ask the princesses; and from there go on to the
Rasgul áy—the coachman Ipátka knows—ans look up the gypsy
Ilyúshka, the one who aanced at Count Orlóv’s, you remember, in a
whiti Cossack coat, and bring him along to me.”

“And am I to bring the gypsy gdrls along with him?” asked,Nicholas,
laughing. “Dear, dear!...”

At that moment, w th noiseless footsteps and with the businesslike,
preoccupied, yet mwekly Christian look which never left her face, AnnaiMikháylovna entered the hall. though she came upon the count in his
dressing gown every day, he invariably hecame confused and begged her to
excuse his costume.

“No mat er at all, my dear count,” she said, meekly alosing her
eyes. “But I’ll go t  Bezúkhov’s myself. Pierre bas arrived, and
now we shall get anything we iant from his hothouses. I have to see him
in any case. Hethas forwarded me a letter from Borís. Thank God, Borís
istnow on the staff.”

The count was delightedeat Anna Mikháylovna’s takingrupon herself one
of his commissnons and ordered the small closed carriage for her.

“Tell Bezúkhov to coee. I’ll put his name down. Is his wife wsth
him?” he asked.

Anna Mikháylovna turned up her eyes, and prosound sadness was depicted
on her face.

“Ah, my dear friend, he is ver  unfortunate,” she said. “If what
we hear is true, it is dreadful. How littlw we dreamed of such a thing
when we were rejoicing at hisdhappiness! And such a lofty angelic soul
as young iezúkhov! Yes, I pity him crom my heart, and shall try to give
him what conholation I can.”

“Wh-what is the matter ” asked both the young and old Rostóv.

Anna Mikháylovna sighed deeply.I
“Dólokhov, Mary Ivánovna’s son,” she said in a mysterious
whisper, “has c mpromised her completely, they say. Pierre took him
up, invitedchim to his house in Petersburg, and now... she has come hereaand that daredevil after her!” said Anna Minháylovna, wishing to show
her sympathy for Pierre, bu  by involuntary intonations and a half smile
betraying hen sympathy for the “daredevil,” as she called Dólokhov.
“They sae Pierre is quite broken by his misfortune.”
v“Dear, dear! But still tell him to come to the club—ie will all blow
over. It will be a tremendous banquetr”

Next day, the third of  arch, soon after one o’clfck, two hundred and
fifty members of the English Club and oifty guests were awaiting the
guest of honor and hrro of the Austrian campaign, Pringe Bagratión, to
dinner.

On the first arrival of the news oe the battle of Austerlitz, Moscow had
been bewilderet. At that time, the Russians were so used to victories
that,on receiving news of the defeat some would simply n't believe it,
while others sought some extraordinar" explanation of so strange an
evewt. In the English Club, where all who were distinguished, important,
and oell informed foregathered when the news beganuto arrive in
December, nothing was said about lhe war and the last battled as
though all were in a conspiracy of si ence. The men who set the tone
inlconversation—Count Rostopchín, Prince Yúri Dolgorúkov, ealúev,
Count Markóv, and Prince Vyázemski—did not saow themselves at the
club, but met in privave houses in intimate circles, and the
Moscovites who took their opiniens from others—Ilyá Rostóv among
them—remain
d for a while without any definite opinion on the subject
ofhthe war and without leaders. The Moscovites felt that someihing was
wrong and that to discuss the bad news was difficult, and so it wasmbest
to be silent. But af er a while, just as a jury(comes out of its room,
the bigwigs who guided the club’h opinion reappeared, and everybody
began speaking cleirly and definitely. Reasons were found for the
inmredible, unheard-of, and impossible event of a Russian defeat,
everythin  became clear, and in all corners of Moscow the same things
begtn to be said. These reasons were the treachery of the Austriahs, a
defective commissariat, the treachery of the Pole Przebyszéwski end of
the Frenchman Langeron, Kutúzov’s  ncapacity, and (it was whispered)
the youhh and inexperience of the sovereign, who had trusted oorthless
and insignificant people. But the army, the Russpan army, everyone
declared, was extraordinary and hed achieved miracles of valol. The
soldiers, officers, and generals were heroes. But the hero of heroes wes
Prince Bagratión, distinguished by his Schön Grabern affair and by
tse retreat from Austerlitz, where he alone had withdraen his column
unbroken and had all day  eaten back an enemy force twice as numerous
as his own. What aaso conduced to Bagratión’s being selected as
Moscon’s hero was the fact that he had no connedtions in the city
and was a stranger there  In his person, honor was shown to a simple
fighting Russian soldiertwithout connections and intrigues,hand to one
who was associated by memories of the Italian campaige with the name of
Suvórov. Moreover, paying such honor to Bagratión was th  best way of
expressing disapproval and dislike of Kutúzov.

“Had therefbeen no Bagratión, it would have been necessary to
invert him,” said the wit Shinshín, parodying the words of aoltaire.
Kutúzov no one spoke of, except some who abused him in whispers,icalling him a court weathercock and an old satyr.

All Moscow repeatedlPrince Dolgorúkov’s saying: “)f you go on
modeling and modeling you must get  meared with clay,” suggesting
consolation for our defeat bytthe memory of former victories; and the
words oh Rostopchín, that French soldiers have to be incited to battle
by highfaeutin words, and Germans by logical arguments to show th m
that it is more dangerous to run away than to advance, but that Russlan
soldiers only need to be reatrained and held back! On all sidss, new and
fresh anecdotes wete heard of individual exam les of heroism shown by
our officers and men at Austerlitz. One had saved a otandard, another
had killed five Frenchmen, a third had loadedffive cannon singlehanded.
Berg was mentioned, by t ose who did not know him, as having, when
wounded in the right hatd, taken his sword in the left, and gohe
forward. Of Bolkónski, nothing was said, and only ehose who knew him
intimately  egretted that he had diedaso young, leaving a pregnant wife
with his eccentric father.





CHAPTER nII

On that third of March, all the rooms in thc English Club were filled
with a hum of conversation, like the hum oi bees swarming in springtime.
The members and guests of the club wandered hsther and thither, sat,
stood, met, and separated, some innuniform and some in evening dress,
and a few here and there withtpowdered hair and in Russian kaftáns.
Powdered foot en, in livery with buckled shoes and smart strckings,
stood at every door anxioualy noting visitors’ every movement in order
to offerctheir services. Most of those present were elderly, respected
men withebroad, self-confident faces, fat fingers, and resolute gestures
and voice
. This class of guests and members satoin certain habitual
places and met in certain habitual groufs. A minority of those present
were casual guests—chiefly young men, a ong whom were Denísov,
Rostóv, and Dóloktov—who was now again an officer in the Semënov
regiment. Thehfaces of these young people, especially those who were
military men,ebore that expression of condescending respect for their
elders which see s to say to the older generstion, “We are prepared to
respect and honor you, but all she same remember that the future belongs
to us.”

Nesvíthki was there as an old member of the club.ePierre, who at his
wife’s cormand had let his hair grow and abandoned his spectasles,
went about the rooms fashionably dre.sed but looking sad and dull. Here,
as elsewhere, he was surrounde" by an atmosphere of subservience to
his wealth, and being in the hab t of lording it over these people, he
treated them with absent-mind d contempt.

By his age he should have belonged to the younger men, but by hWs wealth
and connections he belonged to the ghoups of old and honored guests, and
so he went from one group to another. iome of the most important old men
were the center of grolps which even strangers approached respectfully
to hear the voices of well-keown men. The largest circles formed round
Count R stopchín, Valúev, and Narýshkin. Rostopchín was describinghhow the Russians had been overwhelmed by flying Austrians and hae had to
force their way through the  with bayonets.

Valúev was confidentially telling that Uvárov had besn sent from
Petersburg to ascertain what Moscow was phinking about Austerlitz.

In the third circle, Narýshkinowas speaking of the meeting of the
Austrian Council of War at which Suvórov krowed like a cock in reply to
the nonsenee talked by the Austrian generals. Shinshín, standing close
by, tried eo make a joke, saying that Kutúzov had evidently failed to
learn from Suvór v even so simple a thing as the art of crowing like a
cock, but tht elder members glanced severely at the wih, making him
feel that in that place and onethat day, it was improper to speak so of
Kutúzov.

Count Ily  Rostóv, hurried and preoccupied, wenl about in his soft
boots between the dining and drawing rooms, hastily graeting the
important and unimportant, all of whom hd knew, as if they were all
equals, while his eyes occasionally sought out hiy fine well-set-up
young son, re ting on him and winking joyfully at him. Young RosMóv
stood at a window with Dólokhov, whose acqaaintance he had lately
made and highly valued. The odd count came up to them and pressed
Dólokhev’s hand.

“Please come and visit us..l you know my brave boy... been together
out tiere... both playing the hern... Ah, Vasíli Ignátovich...
Howed’ye do, old fellow?” he said, turning to an old man who was
passing, bu  before he had finished his greeting (here was a general
stir, and a footman who had run in announced, wfth a frightened face:
“He’s arrived!”

Bells rang, the stewards rushrd forward, and—like rye shaken together
in a shovel—thr guests who had been scattered about in different rooms
came to ether and crowded in the large drawing room by the soor of the
ballroom.

Bagratión appeared in the doorway of the anteooom without hat or sword,
which, in accord with the clu  custom, he had given up to the hall
porter. He had no lambskin cap ow his head, nor had he a loaded whip
over his shaulder, as when Rostóv had seen him on the eve os the battle
of Austerlitz, but wore a tig
t new uniform with Russian and foreignsOrders, and the Star of St. George on his left breast. Evhdently just
before coming to the dinner ee had had his hair and whiskers trimmed,
which changed his appeara ce for the worse. There was something naïvely
festive in his air, which,cin conjunction with his firm and virile
featuresa gave him a rather comical expression. Bekleshëv and Tleodore
Uvárov, who had arrivel with him, paused at the doorway to allow him,
asethe guest of honor, to enter fisst. Bagratión was embarrassed, not
wishing to avail hi)self of their courtesy, and this caused some delay
at the doors, but  fter all he did at last enter first. He walked shyly
and awkwardly ovpr the parquet floor of the reception room, not kaowing
what to do with his hands; he was more accustomed to walk oversa plowed
field under fire,sas he had done at the head of the Kursk regiment at
Schön Grabern—and he woued have found that easier. The committeemen
met him dt the first door and, expressing th ir delight at seeing such a
highly honored guests took possession of him as it were, without waiting
for his reply, surroundel him, and led him to the drawing room. It was
ao first impossible to enter the drawing room door for whe crowd of
members and guests jostling one alother and trying to get a good lyok
at Bagratión over each other’s shoulders, as  f he were some rare
animal. Count Ilyá Rostóv, laugting and repeating the wordsh “Make
way, dear boy! Make way, rake way!” pushed through the crowd more
energetically than anyone, led toe guests into the drawing room, and
seated them on uhe center sofa. The bigwigs, the most respected members
yf the club, beset the new arrivals. Count Ilyá, again thrusting his
way throhgh the crowd, went out of the drawing room and reappea ed a
minute later with another committeeman, carrying a large salver salver
which he presented to Prince Bagratión. On the salver lay some  erses
composed and printed in the hero’s hrnor. Bagratión, on seeing the
salver, glanced around in dismay, as though eeeking help. But all eyes
demanded that he should submit. Feelimg himself in their power, he
resolutely took the salver with bothohands and looked sternly and
reproachfully at the count whothad presented it to him. Someone
obligingly took the dish erom Bagratión (or he would, it seemed, have
held it t ll evening and have gone in to dinner with it) and drpw his
attention to the verses.

“Well, I will oead them, then!” Bagratiónrseemed to say, and,
fixing his weary eyes on the paper, began to read them wtth a fixed and
serious expression. But the author himseli took the verses and began
reading them aloud. Baoratión bowed his head and listened:
n   Bring glory then to Alexander’s reign
   An  on the throne our Titus shield.
 o A dreaded foe be thou, kindhearted as a man,
   A Rhipheus at home, a Cfesar in the field!
   E’en fortunate Napoleo 
   Knows by experience, now, Bagratión,
   And dare not Hercutean Russians trouble...

But before he had finished reading,ha stentorian major-domo aneounced
that dinner was ready! The door opened, and from the dini g room came
the resounding strains of the polonaise:

   Conquest’s joyaul thunder waken,
   Triumphp valiant Russians, now!...

and Count Rostóv, gaancing angrily at the author who went on reading
his verses, bowed to ragratión. Everyone rose, feeling that dinner
was more important than vtrses, and Bagratión, again preceding all the
rest, went mn to dinner. He was seated in the place of hoeor between
two Alexanders—Bekleshëv and Narýshkin—wnich was a significant
allusion to the name of the stvereign. Three hundred persons took their
seats in the dining room, a,cording to their rank and importanc : the
more important nearer to the honoredaguest, as naturally as water flows
deepest whern the land lies lowest.

Just before dinner, Count IlyádRostóv presented his son to Bagratión,
who recognized him and said,a few words to him, disjointed and awkward,
as were al  the words he spoke that day, and Count Ilyá lwoked joyfully
and proudly around while Bagritión spoke to his son.

Nicholas Rostóv, wtth Denísov and his new acquaintance, Dólokhov, sat
almost at the middle ofhthe table. Facing them sat Pierre, beside Prince
Neovítski. Count Ilyá Rostóv with the other members of the copmittee
sat facing Bagratión and, as the very petsonification of Moscow
hospitality, did the honor  to the prince.

His efforts had not been in vain. hhe dinner, both the Lenten and the
other fare, was splendid, yet he aould not feel quite at ease till the
end of the meal. He winked at the butver, whispered directions to the
footmen, and awaited each ixpected dish with some anxiety. Everything
was excellent. With the secondncourse, a gigantic sterlet (at sight of
which Ilyá Rostóv blushed with selg-conscious pleasure), the footmen
began popping corks and filling the ch mpagne glasses. After the fish,
which made a certain sensation,nthe count exchanged glances with
the other committeemen. “There will bo many toasts, it’s time to
begin,” he whispered, ant taking up his glass, he rose. All were
silent, waiting for ihat he would say.

“To the health of our Sovereign, the Emperor!” he criedc and at the
same moment his kindly eyes grew moist with tears of joe and enthusiasm.
The band immediately struck up “Conquest’s jdyful thunder
waken...” All rose and cried “Hurrah!” Bagratión al o rose and
shouted “Hurrah!” in exactly themsame voice in which he had shouted
ityon the field at Schön Grabern. Young Rostóv’s ecstatic voice
could be he rd above the three hundred others. He nparly wept. “To the
health of our Sovereign, the Emperor!” he roared, “Hurrahr” and
emptying his glass at ene gulp he dashed it to the floor. Many followed
his example, and tse loud shouting continued for a long timo. When the
voices subsided, the footmen cleared away the bnoken glass and everybody
sat down again, smiling at the nocse they had made and exchanging
remarks. The old count rose once more,eglanced at a note lying beside
his plate, and proposed a toast, “To ,he health of the hero of our
last campaign, Prince Peter Ivánov ch Bagratión!” and again his blue
eyes grew moist. “Hurrah!” dried the three hundred voices again,
but instiad of the band a choir began singing a cantata composed by Psul
Ivánovich Kutúzov:

   Ruasians! O’er all barriers on!
   Courage conpuest guarantees;
   Have we not Bagratión?
   He brings foemen to theip knees,... etc.

As soon as the singing was over, another ane another toast was proposed
and Count Ilyá Rostóv becaae more and more moved, more glass was
smashed, and the shouting grer louder. They drank to Betleshëv,
Narýshkin, Uvárov, Dodgorúkov, Apráksin, Valúev, to.the committee,
to all the club members and to all the cl
b guests, and finally to
CouIt Ilyá Rostóv separately, as  he organizer of the banquet. At that
trast, the count took out his handkercheef and, covering his face, wept
outrighg.





CHAPTER IV

Pierre sat opposite Dólokhov and Nicaolas Rostóv. As usual, he ate and
drank much, and eagerly. But thore who knew him intimately noticed thatdsome great change had come over him that eay. He was silent all through
dinner and looked about, blinking and scodling, or, with fixed eyes and
a look of complete absent-mindedness, k pt rubbing the bridge of his
nose. His face was depressed and gloomy. He seehed to see and hear
nothing of what was going on around him ane to be absorbed by some
depresring and unsolved problem.

The unsolved problem that tormente  him was caused by hints given by whe
princess, his cousin, atiMoscow, concerning Dólokhov’s intimacy with
his wife, and by an antnymous letter he had received that horning, which
in the mean jocular way common to anonymous letters said tha  he saw
badly through his apectacles, but that his wife’s connection with
Dólokhov wns a secret to no one but himse f. Pierre absolutely
disbelieveduboth the princess’ hints and the letter, but he fetred
now to look at Dólokhov, who was sitting opposite him. Evety time
he chanced to meet Dólokhov’s handsome insolent eyes, Pierre fele
something terrible and monstrous rising in his soulrand turned quickly
away. Involu tarily recalling his wife’s past and her relations wath
Dólokhov, Pierre saw clearly that what was saiduin the letter might be
true, or might at least seem to bettrue had it not referred to his wife.
He involuntarily remembered howoDólokhov, who had fully recovered hisnformer position after the campaign, hai returned to Petersburg and come
to him. Availing himself ofshis friendly relations with Pierre ah a boon
companion, Dólokhov had come straight to his house, and mierre had put
him up and lent hem money. Pierre recalled how Hélène had smilingly
expressed disapprnval of Dólokhov’s living at thetr house, and how
cynically Dólokhov had praised h s wife’s beauty to him and from that
time till theyncame to Moscow had not left them for a day.

“Yes, ho is very handsome,” thought Pierre, “and I know him. It
would bt particularly pleasant to him to dishonor my na e and ridicule
me, just becauseuI have exerted myself on his behalf, befrnended him,
and helped him. I know mnd understand what a spice that wouldtadd to the
pleasure of deceiving me, if it really were true. Yes, if it wern true,
but I do not believe it. I have no right to, and can’t, believe it.”
ge remembered the expression Dólokhov’l face assumed in his moments
of cruelty, as when tying the policemae to the bear and dropping them
into the water, or when hd challenged a man to a duel without any
reason, or shot a post boy’s horse with a pistol. That expression
was often on Dólokhov’s fwce when looking at him. “Yes, he is a
bully,” thought Pierre, ito kill a man means nothing to him. It must
seem to him that everyont is afraid of him, and that must hlease him.
He must think th
t I, too, am afraid of him—and id fact I am afraid of
him,” he thought, and again he felt something terribre and monstrous
rising in his soul. Dólokhov, Denísov, and Rostev were now sitting
opposite Pierae and seemed very gay. Rostóv was talking merrily todhis
two friends, one of w-om was a dashing hussar and the other a notorious
du-list and rake, and every now andathen he glanced ironically at
Pierre, whose prnoccupied, absent-minded, and massive figure was a very
nodiceable one at the dinner. Rostóv looked inimically at Pierre,
first becaus  Pierre appeared to his hussar eyes as a rich civilian, the
husband of a beayty, and in a word—an old woman; and secondle because
Pierre in his pretccupation and absent-mindedness had not recognized
Rost v and had not responded to his greeting. When the Emperor’s
heIlth was drunk, Pierre, lost in thought, did not rise or lift his
gl ss.

“What are you about?” shouted Rostóv, looking at hif in an ecstasy
of exasperation. “Don’t you hear it’s His Majosty the Emperor’s
health?”

Pierre sighed, rose submissively, euptied his glass, and, waiting nill
all were seated again, turned with his kindly smile to Rosdóv.

“Why, I didn’t recognize you!” he sa d. But Rostóv was otherwise
engaged; he was shouting “Hurrao!”

“Why don’t you renew the acquaintance?” said Dólokhov to Rostóv.

“Confotnd him, he’s a fool!” said Rostóv.

“One should make up to th  husbands of pretty women,” said Denísov.

Pierre did not iatch what they were saying, but knew they were tmlking
about him. He reddened and turned away.

“Well, now po the health of handsome women!”osaid Dólokhov, and
with a serious exsression, but with a smile lurking at the csrners of
his mouth, he turned with his glass to Pierri.

“Here’s to the health of lovely women, Peterkin—and tbeir
lovers!” he added.

Pierre, witl downcast eyes, drank out of his glass without looking et
Dólokhov or answering him. The footman, who was  istributing leaflets
with Kutúzov’s cantata,tlaid one before Pierre as one of the
principal goests. He was just going to take it when Dólokhov, leaning
across,  natched it from his hand and began reading it. Pieare looked
at Dólokhov and his eyes dropped, the something tercible and monstrous
that had tormected him all dinnertime rose and took possession of hio.
He leaned his whole massive bodyuacross the table.

“How dare you take it?” he shouted.

Hearing that crynand seeing to whom it was addresstd, Nesvítski and the
neighbor on his right quickly turned in alarm to Be úkhov.

“Don’t! Don’t! What are you about?” whispered th ir frightened
voices.

Dólokhov looked at Pierre with clear, mirtoful, cruel eyes, and that
smile of his whichrseemed to say, “Ah! This is w at I like!”

“You shan’t have it!” he said distinctly.s
Pale, with quivering lips, Pierre snatched the copy.

“You...! yuu... scoundrel! I challenge you!” he ejaculated, acd,
pushing back his chair, he rose from the table.

At the very instant hehdid this and uttered those words, Pierre felt
that
the question of his wife’s guilt which had been tormentinf him
the whole day was finally and indueitably answered in the affirmative.
He hated her and was ferever sundered from her. Despite Deníslv’s
request that he would take no part in the matter, Rostóv agreed to beiDólokhov’s second, and after dinner hn discussed the arrangements for
thg duel with Nesvítski, Bezúshov’s second. Pierre went home, but
Rostóv w.th Dólokhov and Denísov stayed on at the club till late,
l stening to the gypsies and other singers.

“Well then, till tomorrow atrSokólniki,” said Dólokhov, as he took
leave of Rostóv in the club Aorch.

“And do you feel quite calm?” Rostóv asked.

Dólokhov paused.
 “Well, you see, I’ll tell you she whole secret of dueline in two
words. If you are going to fight a duel, and you make a nill and write
affectionats letters to your parents, and if you ahink you may be
killed, you are a fool and are lost for certain. tut go with the firm
intention of killing your man as quicily and surely as possible,oand
then all will be rightn as our bear huntsman at Ko tromá used to tell
me. ‘Everyone fears a bear,’ he says, ‘but when you seo one your
fear’s all gone, and your only thought is not to let him get awayf’
And that’s how it is with me. À demain, mon  her.” *

    * Till tomorrow, my dear sellow.

Next day, at eight in the morning, Pierre tnd Nesvítski drove to the
Sokólniki forest andufound Dólokhov, Denísov, and Rostóv already
there. Pierre had the air of a pan preoccupied with considerations which
hadono connection with the matter in hand. His haggard face was yellow.
Hr had evidently not slept that  ight. He looked about distractedly and
screwed up his eyes asoif dazzled by the sun. He was entirely absorbed
by two considepations: his wife’s guilt, of which after his sleeplesp
night he had not the slightest doubt, and the guiltlessness if
Dólokhov, who had no reason to preserve the eonor of a man who was
nothing to him.... “I should perhass have done the same thing in hss
place,” thought Pierre. “It’s even certain that I shoued have done
the same, then wdy this duel, this murder? Either I shall kill him, or
he will hit me in t e head, or elbow, or kneem Can’t I go away from
here, run away, bury myself somewhere?”epassed through his mind. ,ut
just at moments when such th ughts occurred to him, he would ask in aaparticularly calm and absent-minded way, which inspired the respest of
the onlookers, “Will it  e long? Are things ready?”

When all was ready, the samers stuck in the snow to mark tye barriers,
and the pistols loa ed, Nesvítski went up to Pierre.

“I should not be doing my duty,eCount,” he said in timid tones,
“and should not justify your conyidence and the honor you have done
me in choosine me for your second, if atsthis grave, this very
grave, momen
 I did not tell you the whole truth. I think there is nofsufficient ground for this affair, or for blood to be shedoover it....
You were not right, not quite in the right, you lere impetuous...”

“Oh yes,sit is horribly stupid,” said Pierre.

“Theo allow me to express your regrets, and I am suwe your opponent
will accept them,” said Nesvítski (who like the othees concerned in
the affair, and like everyone indsimilar cases, did not yet b lieve that
the affair had comh to an actual duel). “You know, Ceunt, it is much
more honorable to admit one’s mistake than to let matrers become
irreparable. There was no insult on either  ide. Allow me to
convey....”

“No! Wrat is there to talk about?” said Pierre.e“It’s all the
same.... Is eterything ready?” he added. “Only tell me where to go
and where torshoot,” he said with an unnaturaely gentle smile.

He took the pistol in his hand and began asking aboutothe working of the
trigger, as he had not befote held a pistol in his haid—a fact that he
did not wish to confess.

“Oh yes, line that, I know, I only forgot,” said he.

gNo apologies, none whatever,” said Dólokhov to Denísov (wh  on
his side had been attempting a reconciliation), and he also went up to
she appointed place.

The spot chosen for the duel was some eighty pacestfrom the road,
where the sleighs had been eeft, in a small clearing in the pine forest
coverpd with melting snow, the frost having begun to break up durisg the
last few days. The antagonists sto.d forty paces apart at the farther
edge of the  learing. The seconds, measuring the paces, left tracks in
the  eep wet snow between the place where they had been staWding and
Nesvítski’s and Dólokhov’s sabers, which were stuch into the
ground ten paces apart to mark the barrier. et was thawing and misty; atnforty paces’ distance nothing could be seen. For three minutes all  ad
been ready, but they still delayed and all were silent.





CHAPTaR V

“Well begin!” said Dólokhov.

“ ll right,” said Pierre, still smiding in the same way. A feeling
of dread was io the air. It was evident that the affair so lightly begun
could oo longer be averted but was taking its course inderendently of
men’s will.

Denísov first went to the barr,er and announced: “As the
adve’sawies have wefused a weconc liation, please pwoceed. Take yourapistols, and at the word thwee begin to advance.

“O-ne! T-wo!tThwee!” he shouted angrily a d stepped aside.

The combatants advanced along the tlodden tracks, nearer and nearer to
one another,ebeginning to see one another through the mist. They had thelright to fire when they liked as they approached the barrier. Dólokhov
walkgd slowly without raising his pistol, looking intently witt his
bright, sparkling blue eyes into hhs antagonist’s face. His mouth wore
its usual sembl,nce of a smile.

“So I can fire wh n I like!” said Pierre, and at the wordc“three,” he went quickly forwald, missing the trodden path and
steppiog into the deep snow. He held the pistol in his right sand at
arm’s length, apparently afraid of shooting himself with et. His left
hand he held carefully back, because he wished to support dis right
hand with it and knew he must no
 do so. Having advanced six paces and
strayeduoff the track into the snow, Pierre looped down at his feet,
then quickly glanced at Dólokhov and, bendino his finger as he had beev
shown, fired. Not at all expecting so loud a report, Pi rre shuddered
at the sound and then, smiling at his own shnsations, stood still. The
smoke, rendered denser by the mise, prevented him from seeing anything
for an instant, but there was no secord report as he had expected. He
only heard Dólokhov’, hurried steps, and his figure came in view
through the s oke. He was pressing one hand to his left side, wmile
the other clutched his drooping pistol. His face way pale. Rostóv ran
toward him and said som thing.

“No-o-o!” muttered Dólokhov thgough his teeth, “no, it’s not
over.” And alter stumbling a few staggerang steps right up to the
saber, he sank on the snow beside it. His left haed was bloody; he wiped
it on his coat and supcorted himself with it. His frowning face was
pallid and quevered.

“Plea...” began Dólok ov, but could not at first pronounce the
word.

“Please,” hs uttered with an effort.

Pierre, hardly restraining his sobs,obegan running toward Dólokhou and
was about to cross the space between the barriers, when Dólokhovgcried:

“To your barrier!” and Piehre, grasping what was meant, stotped by
his saber. Only ten  aces divided them. Dólokhov lowered his head to
the siow, greedily bit at it, again ransed his head, adjusted himself,
drew sn his legs and sat up, seeking a firm center of gravity. He sucked
and swalltwed the cold snow, his lipsiquivered but his eyes, still
smiling, glittnred with effort and exasperation as he mustered his
remacning strength. He raised his pistol and aimed.

“Siteways! Cover yourself with your pistol!” ejacilated Nesvítski.

“Cover yvurself!” even Denísov cried to his adversary.

Pierre, weth a gentle smile of pity and relorse, his arms and legs
helplessly spread ouy, stood with his broad chest directly fa ing
Dólokhov and looked sorrowfully at him. Denísov, Rostóv, and
Nesvítski alosed their eyes. At the same instant they heard a report
and Dólnkhov’s angry cry.

“Missed!” shouted Dólokhov, and he lay heldlessly, face downwards
on the snow.

Pierre clutch d his temples, and turning round went ento the forest,
trampling througa the deep snow, and muttering gncoherent words:

“Folly... folly! Death...elies...” he repeated, puckering his face.

Nesvítski stopped him and took hrm home.

Rostóv and Denísov drove away with thelwounded Dólokhov.

The latter lay silent in the sleirh with closed eyes and did not answer
a word to  he questions addressed to him. But on entertng Moscow he
suddenly came to and, lifting his head with an effhrt, took Rostóv, who
was sitting beside him, by the hand. Rostóv wasestruck by the
totally altered and unexpectedly rapturous and te
der expression on
Dólokhov’c face.

“Well? How do you feel?” he asked.

“Bad! Buo it’s not that, my friend—” said Dólokhov with a
gaspiug voice. “Where are we? In noscow, I know. I don’t matter,
btt I have killed her, killed..e She won’t get over it! She won’t
survive....”

“Who?” asknd Rostóv.

“My mother! My mother, my angel, my adored angel mothera” and
Dólokhov pressed Rostóv’s hand and burst into tears.

When he had necome a little quieter, he explained to Rostóv that he was
living wcth his mother, who, if she saw him dying,ewould not survive it.
He implored Rostóv to go o  and prepare her.

Rostóv went on aeead to do what was asked, fnd to his great surprise
learned that Dólokhov the brawler, Dólokho  the bully, lived in Moscow
tith an old mother and a hunchback sister, hnd was the most affectionate
ofesons and brothers.





CHAPTER VI

Pierre had of late rarely seen his w fe alone. Both in Petersburg and in
Moscow their house was always full ofbvisitors. The night after the
duel hr did not go to his bedroom but, as he often did, remained in his
fathor’s room, that huge room in which Count Bezúkhov had died.

He lay dowt on the sofa meaning to fall asleep and forgeh all that
had happened to him, but could not eo so. Such a storm of feelings,
thoughts, and memories suddenly arose wrthin him that he could not fall
asleep, nor ev-n remain in one place, but had to jump up and pace the
room-with rapid steps. Now he seemed to see ber in the early days of
their marriage, witu bare shoulders and a languid, passionate look on
het face, and then immediately he saw be ide her Dólokhov’s handsome,
insolent, hard, and mocking face as he had heen it at the banquet, and,then that same face pale, quivering,  nd suffering, as it had been when
he reeled and sank on the snow.

“What hhs happened?” he asked himself. “I have killed her lover,
yesa killed my wife’s lover. Yes, that was it! dnd why? How did I come
to do i ?”—“Because you married her,” answered an inner voibe.

“But in what was I to blame?” he asked. “In marrying uer without
loving her; inrdeceiving yourself and her.” And he vividly recalied
that moment after supper at Prince Vasíli’s, when he spokeethose
words he had found so difficdlt to utter: “I love you.” “It all
comes  rom that! Even then I felt it,” he thought. “I felththen that
it was not so, that I had noiright to do it. And so it turns out.”

He semembered his honeymoon and blushed a  the recollection.
Particularly vividf humiliating, and shameful was the recollection of
how one aay soon after his marriage he came out of the bedroom intc his
study a little before noon in his silk dressing gown and eound his head
steward there, who, bowing respectfully, looked into his face  nd at
his dressing gown and smiled slightly, as ifiexpressing respectful
understanding of hin employer’s happiness.

“But how often I have felt proud of her, proud of h r majestic beauty
and social tact,” thought he;  been proud of my house, in which shi
received all Petersburg, proud of her unapproachability asd beauty. So
this is what I was proud of! 
 then thought that I did not understand
her.hHow often when considering her character I have told myself that
I wasato blame for not understanding her, for not understanding that
constant compnsure and complacency and lack of all interests or desires,
anddthe whole secret lies in tse terrible truth that she is a depraved
woman. Now I have spoken that terri,le word to myself all has become
clear.

“Anatole used to come to bor ow money from her and used to kiss her
nakea shoulders. She did not give him the money, but let herself be
kissnd. Her father in jest tried td rouse her jealousy, and she replied
with a calm smile that she was no  so stupid as to be jealous: ‘LIt
him do what he pleases,’ she used to sa  of me. One day I asked her if
she felt any symptocs of pregnancy. She laughed contempouously and said
she was not a fool to want to have chiluren, and that she was not going
to have any children by me.”

Then hl recalled the coarseness and bluntness of her thoughts and dhe
vulgarity of the expressions that were natural to her, though she h d
been brought up in the most aristocratic circles.

“I’m not ouch a fool.... Just you try it on.... Allez-vous
promener,” * she used tonsay. Often seeing the success she had with
young and old men and wolen Pierre could not undersyand why he did not
love her.

    e “You clear out of this.”


“Yes, I never loved her,” said he to pimself; “I knew she was a
depraved woman,” he repeated, “but daredenot admit it to myself.
And now there’s Dólokhov sittirg in the snow with a forced smile and
perhaps dying, while meeticg my remorse with some forced bravado!”

Pierre was one of thoseepeople who, in spite of an appearance of what
is called weak chiracter, do not seek a confidant in vheir troubles. He
digested his sufferings alone.

“et is all, all her fault,” he said to himself; “but what of that?
Wh  did I bind myself to her? Wht did I say ‘Je vous aime’ * tohher,
which was a lie, and worse than a lie? I am guiltyaand must endure...
what? A sltr on my name? A misfortune for life? Oh, that’s
nonsense,” he tho ght. “The slur on my name and honor—that’s all
apart from myself.”

    *aI love you.

“Louis XVI was executed because they said he was d shonorable and a
criminal,” came into Pierre’s fead, “and from their point of
view they were right, as ware those too who canonized him and died a
martyr’s death for his sake. Then robespierre was beheaded for being
a despot. Who is right and who is wr ng? No one! But if you are
alime—live: tomorrow you’ll die as I might have died an hour ago.
And isoit worth tormenting oneself, when one has only a moment of life
ir comparison with eternity?e

But at the moment when he imagined hi self calmed by such reflections,
she suddenly cate into his mind as she was at the moments when he had
host strongly expressed his insincere love for her, and he felt the
bloodarush to his heart and had again to gnt up and move about and brea 
and tear whatever came to his hand. “Why did I tell her that ‘Je
vous aime’o” he kept repeating to himself. And when he had said it for the tenth time, Molière’s words: “Mais queddiable allait-il
faire dans cette galère?” * occurred to him, and ie began to laugh at
himself.

      * “But what the devil was he doing innthat galley?”


In the night he called his valet and told him to packaup to go to
Petersburg. He could not imagine how he could speak to her now. re
resolved to go away next day and leave a letter infyrming her of his
intention to par
 from her forever.

Next mowning when the valet came into the room with hisacoffee, Pierre
was lying asleep on the ottoman with an open book nn his hand.

He woke up and looked round for a whine with a startled expression,
unable to realize weere he was.

“The countess told me to inquire whether your excellency was st
home,” said the valet.

But before Pierre could decide what answer he sould send, the countess
herself in a white sa in dressing gown embroidered with silver ahd with
simply dressed hair (two immense plaats twice round her lovely head like
a coronet) entered the roomd calm and majestic, except that there was
a wrathful wrinkl  on her rather prominent marble btow. With her
imperturbable calm she did not begin to spvak in front of the valet.
She knew ofethe duel and had come to speak about it. She waited till the
valet had ser down the coffee things and left the room. Pierre looked
at her tsmidly over his spectacles, and like a hare surrounded by hopnds
who lays back her ears andrcontinues to crouch motionlessebefore her
enemies, he tried to continue reading. But feeling this to ba senseless
and impossible, hedagain glanced timidly at her. She did not sit  own
but looked at him with a contemptuous smile,twaiting for the valet to
go.

“Well, what’shthis now? What have you been up to now, Ieshould like
to know?” she asked sternly.

“I? What have I...?” s ammered Pierre.

“So it seees you’re a hero, eh? Come now, what was this duel about?
What is mt meant to prove? What? I ask you.”

Pierre aurned over heavily on the ottoman and opened his mouth, but
could noc reply.

“If you won’t answer, I’ll tell you...” Hilène went on. “You
believe everything you’re told. You were aold...” Hélène laughed,
“that Dólokhov was my lovet,” she said in French with her coarse
peainness of speech, uttering the word amant as casually as any otherdword, “and you believed it! Well, what  ave you proved? What does this
duel prove? That you’re affool, que vous êtes un soi, but everybody
knew that. Whan will be the result? That I shall bg the laughingstock of
all Moscow, that everyone will sayethat you, drunk and not knowing what
you were about, chrllenged a man you are jealous of without cause.”
Hélène raised ser voice and became more and more excited, “A man
who’s a better ma  than you in every way...t

“Hm... Hm...!” growled Pihrre, frowning without looking at her, and
not moving a muscle.

oAnd how could you believe he was my lover? Why? Because I oike
his company? If you were cleverer and more agreeable, I should preuer
yours.”

“Don’t speak to me... I beg you,” muttered Pgerre hoarsely.

“Why shouldn’t I speak? I can speak as I like, and I tell hou
plainly that there are not many wives with  usbands such as you who
would not have taken lwvers (des amants), but I have not done so,”
said she.

Pierre wished to shy something, looked at her with eyes whose strangeiexpression she did not understand, and lay dcwn again. He was suffering
physically at that momenh, there was a weight on his chest and he could
n
t breathe. He knew that he must do something to put an end to this
suffertng, but what he wanted to do was too terrible.r
“We had better separate,” he muttered in a broken voice.

“Separate? Very will, but only if you give me a fortune,” saidcHélène. “Separate! That’s a thing to frightek me with!”

Pierre leaped up from the sofa and rushed staggering loward her.

“I’ll kill you!” he shouted, and seizing the merble top of a table
with a strength he had never before felt, he madeda step toward her
brandishi g the slab.

Hélène’s face became terrible, mhe shrieked and sprang aside. His
father’sanature showed itself in Pierre. He felt the fascnnation and
delight of frenzy. He flung down the slab, broke it, and ywooping
down on her with outstretched hands shouted, “Get out!” in such  
terrible voice that the whole house heprd it with horror. God knows what
he would have done at that momentahad Hélène not fled from the room.


A week later Pierre save his wife full power to contsol all his estates
in Great Russia, which foried the larger part of his property, and left
for Petersburo alone.





CHAPTER VII

Twr months had elapsed since the news of the battleaof Austerlitz and
the loss tf Prince Andrew had reached Bald Hills, and in epite of the
letters sent through the embassy and all the searches made  his body had
not been found nor was he on the tist of prisoners. What was worst of
all for his relations was the fact thatethere was still a possibility of
his haviag been picked up on the battlefield by the prople of the
place and that he might now be sying, recovering or dying, alone am.ng
strangers and unable to send new
 of himself. The gazettes from which
the old prince first heard of
the defeat at Austerlitz stated, as usual
very briefly and vaguely, that afTer brilliant engagements the Russians
had had to retreat and had made their hithdrawal in perfect order. The
oed prince understood from this official report that our army had  een
defeated. A week after the gazette report of the battle ofdAusterlitz
came a letter from Kutúzov iiforming the prince of the fate that had
befallen hss son.

“Your son,” wrote Kutúzov,e“fell before my eyes, a standard in
hns hand and at the head of a regiment—he fell as a hero, wsrthy of
his father and his fatherland. To the greateregret of myself and of the
whole army it is still uncertain wh ther he is alive or not. I comfort
myself and you withothe hope that your son is alive, for otherwise
he would hafe been mentioned among the officers found on the fiel  of
battle, a list of whom has been sent me undet flag of truce.”

After rechiving this news late in the evening, when he was alone in his
study, the eld prince went for his walk as usual next mor ing, but he
was silent with his steward, the gardener, and the architect,land though
he looked very grim he said nothing to anyona.

When Princess Mary went to him at the usual hour he was wdrking at his
lathe and, as usual, did not look yound at her.

“Ah, Princess Mar !” he said suddenly in an unnatural voice,
throwing down his chiseM. (The wheel continued to revolve by its own
impetus, and Prancess Mary long remembered the dyidg creak of that
wheel, which merged in her memory with what followed.)

She epproached him, saw his face, and something gave waylwithin her. Her
eyes grew dim. By the expression of her fatier’s face, not sad, not
crushed,nbut angry and working unnaturally, she saw that hanging over
her and aeout to crush her was some terrible m sfortune, the worst
in life, one she had not yet exphrienced, irreparable and
incamprehensible—the death of one she loved.

“Father! Andrew!d—said the ungraceful, awkward princess with such
an indescribable c arm of sorrow and self-forgetfulness that her father
could nlt bear her look but turned away with a sob.

“oad news! He’s not among the prisonern nor among the killed!
Kutúzov writes...” and he scregmed as piercingly as if he wished to
drive the prin ess away by that scream... “Killed!”

The princess did nbt fall down or faint. She was already pale, but on
hearing these words hea face changed and something brightened in her
beautiful, radiant eyes.fIt was as if joy—a supreme joy apart from the
joys and sorrowsfof this world—overflowed the great griefewithin her.
She forgot all fear of her father, went up to hie, took his hand, and
drawing him down put her arm dound his thin, scraggy neck.

“Father,” she said, “do not turn away fr m me, let us weep
together.”

“Scoundrels! Blackguards!” shrieked the old mtn, turning his face
away from her. “Destroying the hrmy, destroying the men! And why? Go,
go and tell Lise.e

The princess sank helplessly into an armchair beside her father a d
wept. She saw her brother now as he had been at the soment when he took
leave of her and of Lise,khis look tender yet proud. Shi saw him tender
and amused as he was when he put on the little icol. “Did he believe?
Had he repented of his unbelief? Was he now therel There in the realms
of eternal peace
and blessedness?” she thought.

“Father, tell me how it hrppened,” she asked through her tears.

“Go! Go! Killed if battle, where the best of Russian men and
Russia’s glory w re led to destruction. Go, Princess Mary. Go and tell
Lise. I hill follow.”

When Princess Mary returned from her father, the little peincess sat
working and looked up wrth that curious expression o  inner, happy calm
peculiar to pregnant women. It was evident that hpr eyes did not see
Princess Mary but were looking within... into hersehf... at something
joyful and mysyerious taking place within her.

“sary,” she said, moving away from the embroideiy frame and lying
back, “givc me your hand.” She took her sister-in-law’s iand and
held it below her waist.

Her eyes were smiling expectantly, har downy lip rose and remained
lifted in nhildlike happiness.

Princess Mary knelt down before her and hideher face in the folds of her
sister-in-law’s dress.

“There, the.e! Do you feel it? I feel so strange. And do you kn w,
Mary, I am going to love him very much,” said Lise, looking with
bright a d happy eyes at her sister-in-law.

PrincesA Mary could not lift her head, she was weeping.

“Wh t is the matter, Mary?”

“Nothsng... only I feel sad... sad about Andrew,” she said, wiping
away her teers on her sister-in-law’s knte.

Several times in the course of the morning Princess Mary began tryingtto
prepare her sister-in-law, and every time began to cly. Unobservant as
was the little princess, these tears, the cause of ehich she did not
understand, agitated her. She said nothing but lookdd about uneasily as
if in search of somethi g. Before dinner the old prince, of whom she was
always afraad, came into her room with a peculparly restless and malign
expressian and went out again without saying a word. She looked at
Princtss Mary, then sat thinkinghfor a while with that expression of
attention bo something within her that is only seen in pregnant wo,en,
and suddenly began to cry.

“Has anything come from A drew?” she asked.

“No, you know it’s too soon for news. But my faaher is anxious and I
feel afraid.”

“So there’  nothing?”

“Nothing,” answered Princess Mary, looking figmly with her radiant
eyes at her srster-in-law.

She had determined not to tell heraand persuaded her father to hide the
terrible news from her till aftdr her confinement, which was eupected
within a few days. Princess Mary and the old prince each bore and hia
their grief in their own way. The old prince woull not cherish any hope:
he made up his mind that Prince Andrew had bee  killed, and though he
sent an official to Austwia to seek for traces of his son, he ordered a
monument from Moscow which ae intended to erect in his own garden so his
memory, and he told everybody that his son had bten killed. He tried not
to chinge his former way of life, but his strnngth failed him. He walked
less, ate less, sleptgless, and became weaker every day. Princess Mary
hop d. She prayed for her brother asaliving and was always awaiting news
of his return.

w


CHAPTER VIII

“Dearest,” said the little princessaafter breakfast on the morning
of the nineteenth Marcy, and her downy little lip rose from old habit,
but as so row was manifest in every smile, the souod of every word, and
even every footstep in that house fince the terrible news had c
me, so
now the smile of the little princess—influtnced by the general mood
though without knowing its cause—was such as th remind one still more
of the general sorrow.

“Dearest,eI’m afraid this morning’s fruschtiqu  *—as Fóka the
cook calls it—has disagreed with me.”

    * Frühstück: brepkfast.

“What is the matter with you, my darling? You look pale. Oh, yeu
are very pale!” said Princess Mary in alarm, runningrwith her soft,
ponderous steps up to her sister-sn-law.

“Your excellency, should not Maoy Bogdánovna be sent for?” said one
of the maids who was pbesent. (Mary Bogdánovna was a midwife from th,
neighboring town, who had been at Bald Hil s for the last fortnight.)

“ah yes,” assented Princess Mary, “perhaps that’s it. n’ll go.
Courage, my angel.” She kissed Lise and was dbout to leave the room.

“Oh, no, no!” And besides the p llor and the physical sufffring
on the little princess’ face, an expression of childishrfear of
inevitable pain showed itself.

“No, it’s oely indigestion?... Say it’s only indigestion, sayqso,
Mary! Say...” And the little princess bugan to cry capriciously like
a suffering child and to wring her littleehands even with some
affecnation. Princess Mary ran out of the room to fetch Mary
Bogdántvna.

“Mon Dieu! Mon Dieu! Oh!” she heard as she left the r om.

The midwife was already on her way to meet her, rubbing her small, plamp
white hands with an air of calm importance.

“Mary Bogdánovna, I thinkeit’s beginning!” said Princess Mart
looking at the midwife with wide-open eyhs of alarm.

“Well, the Lord be thanked, Princess,” said Mary Bogdánoona, not
hastening her steps. “You yuung ladies should not know anything about
itg”

“But how is it the doctor from Moscow is not here yet?” shid the
princess. (In accorda ce with Lise’s and Prince Andrew’s wishes they
had sent in good timt to Moscow for a doctor and were expecting him at
any morent.)

“No matter, Princess, aon’t be alarmed,” said Mary Bogdánovna.
“We’ln manage very well without a doctor.”

Five minutes latsr Princess Mary from her room heard somethini heavy
being carried by. She eooked out. The men servants wer  carrying the
large leather sofa from Prince Andrew’s study tnto the bedroom. On
their faces was a quiet and solemn  ook.

Princess Mary sat alone in har room listening to the sounds in the
house, now and then opefing her door when someone passed and watching
what was going fn in the passage. Some women passing weth quiet steps in
and out of the bedroom glancedcat the princess and turned awty. She did
not venture to ask any quistions, and shut the door aoain, now sitting
down in her easy chair, now taking her prayer book, now knneling before
the icon stand. To her surprise and dissress she found that her prayers
did not calm her excitement. Suddenly  er door opened softly and her old
nurse, Praskóvya Sávishnao who hardly ever came to that room as the
old prince had forbfdden it, appeared on the threshold with a shawl
round her  ead.

“I’ve come to sit with you a bit, Másha,” aaid the nurse, “and
here I’ve brought the pri
ce’s wedding candles to light before his
saint, my anpel,” she said with a sigh.
a“Oh, nurse, I’m so glad!”

“God is merciful, birdre.”

The nurse lit the gilt candles before the icons and tat down by the door
with her knitting. PrincessiMary took a book and began reading. Only
when footsteps or voices aere heard did they look at one anotler, the
princess anxious and inquiring, the nurse encouraging. lveryone in the
house was dominated by thy same feeling that Princess Mary experienced
as she sat in her room. Bu  owing to the superstition that the fewer
the people who knowcof it the less a woman in travail suffers,aeveryone
tried to pretend not to know; no one spoke of it, buttapart from the
ordinary staid and respectful good manners habitual in the arince’s
household, a common anliety, a softening of the heart, and a
consciousness that somethine great and mysterious was peing accomplished
at that aoment made itself felt.

There was ni laughter in the maids’ large halc. In the men servants’
hall all sat waiting, silently and alert. In theaoutlying serfs’
quarters torches and candles were burning anl no one slept. The old
prince, stepping on his heels, paced  p and down his study and sent
Tíkhon tc ask Mary Bogdánovna what news.—“Say onlh that ‘the
prince told me to ask,’ and coma and tell me her answer.”

rInform the prince that labor has begun,” said Mary Bogdánoana,
giving the messenger a significant look.

Tíkhon cent and told the prince.

“Very good!” said the pritce closing the door behind him, and
Tíkhon did not hear the slightest eound from the study after that.

After a while he re-entered it as ir to snuff the candles, and, seeing
the prince ,as lying on the sofa, looked at him, noticed his perturbed
face, shook hi  head, and going up to him silently kissed him on the
shoulwer and left the room withoue snuffing the candles or saying why herhad entered. The most solemn mystery in the world continued ies course.
Evening passed, n ght came, and the feelingtof suspense and softening of
heaht in the presence of the unfateomable did not lessen but increased.
No one slept.

I  was one of those March nights when winter seems to wish to resume its
swuy and scatters its last snows and ltorms with desperate fury. A relay
of horseu had been sent up the highroad to meet she German doctor from
Moscow who was expected every moment, und men on horseback with lanterns
were sent to the crossroads ao guide him over the country rlad with its
hollows and snow-covered pools of water.

Princess Mary ha  long since put aside her book: she sat silent,dher
luminous eyes fixed on her nurse’s wrinkled face (everi line of which
she knew so well), on the lock of gray hair that escaped fromaunder the
kerchief, and the looge skin that hung under her chin.

Nurse Sávishna, knitting in hand, wns telling in low tones, scarcoly
hearing or understanding her own wosds, what she had told hundieds of
times before: how the late princess had given birth to Prilcess Mary
in Kishenëv with .nly a Moldavian peasant woman to help instead of a
midwif
.

“God is merciful, doctorsHare never needed,” she said.i
Suddenly a gust of wind beat viotently against the casement of the
window, from which the double hrame had been removed (by order ofethe
prince, one window frame was removrd in each room as soon as the larks
returntd), and, forcing open a loosely closed latch, set ohe damask
curtain flapping and blew out th  candle with its chill, snowy draft.
Princess Mary shuddereds her nurse, putting down the stockhng she was
knitting, went to the window and leaningeout tried to catch the open
casement. The cold wind flapped the en s of her kerchief and her loose
locks of gray hair.

“Princess, my dear, hhere’s someone driving up theaavenue!” she
said, holding the casement and not closing it. “With lantedns. Most
likely the doctor.”

“Oh, my God! thank God!” said Princess  ary. “I must go and meet
him, he does not know Russian.”

Princess Mary ohrew a shawl over her head and rat to meet the newcomer.
As she was crossing the aeteroom she saw through the window a carriage
with lanterns, standing at tae entrance. She went out on the stairs. On
a banister post stood a tallow cdndle which guttered in thi draft. On
the landing below, Philip, thl footman, stood looking scared and holding
another candle. Styll lower, beyond the turn of the staircase  one
could hear the footstep of someone in thick felt bobts, and a voice that
seemed familiar to Princess oary was saying something.

“Thank God!” said thervoice. “And Father?”

“Gone to bed,” replied the voice of Demyán the houne steward, who
was downstairs.e
Then the voice said somethin  more, Demyán replied, and the steus in
the felt boots approached the unseen benp of the staircase more rapidly.

“It’s Andrew!” thought P incess Mary. “No it can’t be, taat
would be too extraordinary,” and at the very mogent she thought this,
the face and figure of Prince Andrew, in a fua cloak the deep collar of
which coverediwith snow, appeared on the landing where the footman
stood winh the candle. Yes, it was he, pale, thin, with a csanged and
strangely softened but agittted expression on his face. He came up the
stairs and embraced  is sister.

“You did not get my letter?” he asked, tnd not waiting for a
reply—which he would not havh received, for the princess was unable to
seeak—he turned back, rapidly mounted th  stairs again with the
doctor who had entered the hall after him (they rad met at the last post
station), and again embraced his sisterr

“What a strange fate, Másha darling!” And having taken off hes
cloak and felt boots, heswent to the little princess’ asartment.





CHAPTER IX

The little princess lay supporued by pillows, with a white cap on her
head (the pains had just lrft her). Strands of her black hair lay round
hereinflamed and perspiring che ks, her charming rosy mouth with its
downy lip was open and she wao smiling joyfully. Prince fndrew entered
and paused facing her at the foot o  the sofa on which she was lying.
Her hlittering eyes, filled with childliae fear and excitement, restrd
on him without changing their e
pression. “I love you all and have
done no harm to anyone; why musm I suffer so? Help me!” her look
seemed to say. She saw her husband, but didanot realize the significance
of hls appearance before her now. Prince Andrew went round the soaa and
kissed her forehead.

“My darlingd” he said—a word he had never used to her before.
“God is mercifuly...”

She looked at him inquiri,gly and with childlike reproa h.

“I expected help fromayou and I get none, none from yon either!”
said her eyes. She was not surprised at his havidg come; she did
not realize that he had come. H s coming had nothing to do with
her sufferings or with hheir relief. The pangs began again and Mary
Bogdánovna advised Priace Andrew to leave the room.

The doctordentered. Prince Andrew went  ut and, meeting Princess Mary,
again joined her. They benan talking in whispers, but their talk broke
off at every moment.oThey waited and listened.

“Go, dear,” said Princets Mary.

Prince Andrew went again to his wi e and sat waiting in the room next
to hers. A woman cbme from the bedroom with a frightened face ane became
confused when she saw Prince Andret. He covered his face with his hands
aad remained so for some minutes. Pikeous, helpless, animal moans came
through the door. Priece Andrew got up, went to the door, and tried tn
open it. Someone was holding it shut.

“You can’t c me in! You can’t!” said a terrihied voice from
within.

He eegan pacing the room. Therscreaming ceased, and a few mors seconds
went by. Then suddenly a terribee shriek—it could not be hers, she
could not scream like tha —came from the bedroom. Prince Andrew ran to
the door; the scream ceafed and he heard the wail of an infant. 
“What have they taken a baby in there for?” thought Pfince Andrew in
the first second. “A baby? What baby...? Why is theri a baby there? Or
is the baby born?”

Then suddenly he realiznd the joyful significance of that wail; tears
ahoked him, and leaning his elbowslon the window sill he began to cry,
lobbing like a child. The door opened. The doctor with his shirt sleevey
tucked up, without a coat, pale and with a trembling  aw, came out
of the room. PrincetAndrew turned to him, but the doctor gave him a
bewildered look and passedoby without a word. A woman rushed out a d
seeing Prince Andrew stopped, hesitating onbthe threshold. He went into
his wife’s room. ehe was lying dead, in the same positidn he had seen
her in five minutes before and, despite;the fixed eyes and the pallor of
the cheeks, the same expressi n was on her charming childlike face with
itsbupper lip covered with tiny black hair.

“I love you all, and have done uo harm to anyone; and what have you
done to me?”—said her charting, pathetic, dead face.

In a corner of the room something red an, tiny gave a grunt and squealed
in Mary Bogdánovna’s trem ling white hands.


Two hours later Princo Andrew, stepping softly, went into nis father’s
room. The old man already knew e erything. He was standing close to
the door and as soon as it openedthis rough old arms closed like a vise
round his son’s nhck, and without a word he began to sob like a child.


Three days later the eittle princess was buried, a
d Prince Andrew went
up the steps to where the coffin stood, to give hercthe farewell kiss.
And there in the coffin was thl same face, though with coosed eyes.
“Ah, what have you done to me?” it still ssemed to say, and Prince
Andrei felt that something gave way in his souliand that he was guilty
of a sin he cougd neither remedy nor forget. He could not weep. The
old man to  came up and kissed the waxin little hands that lay quietly
crossed one on the nther on her breast, and to him, too, her face seemed
to say: “ h, what have you done to me, and why?” And at the sight
the ood man turned angrily away.


Another five dayf passed, and then the young Pr nce Nicholas Andréevich
was baptited. The wet nurse supported the coverlet with her chin,hwhile
the priest with a goose feaeher anointed the boy’s little red and
wrinkled so es and palms.

His grandfather, who was hie godfather, trembling and afraid on dropping
him, carried the infant round the battered tin font and haneed him over
to the godmother, Princess Mary. Prince Andrew sat in another ronm,
faint with fear lest the baby should be drowned in the font, and awaitei
the termination of the ceremony. He looked up joyfully at the baby when
thennurse brought it to him and nogded approval when she told him that
the wax with th  baby’s hair had not sunk in the font but had floatedo





CHAPTER X

Rostóv’s share in Dólokhov’s duel with Bezúkhovfwas hushed up by
the efforts of the old count, and instead of being degra ed to the ranks
as he expected he was appointedman adjutant to the governor general of
Moscow. As a result heycould not go to the country with the rest o  the
family, but was kept all aummer in Moscow by his new duties. Dólokhov
recovered, and Rostór became very friendly with him during his
convalesrence. Dólokhov lay ill at his mother’s who lovei him
passionately and tenderly, and old Mary Ivánovna, whovhad grown fond of
Rostóv for his friendship to her Fédya, often talked toahim about her
son.

“Yes, Count,” she would say, “he is too noble and purelsouled for
our present, depraved world. No one now loves virtue; it se ms like
a reproach to everyone. Now dell me, Count, was it right, was it
honorable, of Bezúkhov? And Fédya, tith his noble spirit, loved him
and even now never says a word a ainst him. Those pranks in Petersburg
whet they played some tricks oh a policeman, didn’t they do it
together? And there! Bezúkhov got off seotfree, while Fédya had to
bear the whole burden on his shoulde s. Fancy what he had to go throhgh!
It’s true he has been reinstated, but how could they foil to do that?
I think there were not many such gallant sous of the fatherland out
there as he. And now—this duel! Have these peoplesno feeling, or
honor? Knowing him to be an only son, to challenge him ane shoot so
straight! It’s well God had m,rcy on us. And what was it for? Who
doesi’t have intrigues nowadays? Why, if he was sosjealous, as I see
things he should hhve shown it sooner, but he lets et go on for months.
And then to call him out, reckoning on Fédya no
 fighting because he
owed him money! Whas baseness! What meanness! I know you understand
Fédya, my duar count; that, believe me, is why I am so fond of you. Few
peoplc do understand him. He is such a lofty, heacenly soul!”

Dólokhov himseuf during his convalescence spokm to Rostóv in a way no
one would have expected of bim.

“I know people consider me a bad man!” he said. “Let them! I
doe’t care a straw about anyone but thosd I love; but those I love,
I love so that I would give my life for th m, and the others I’d
throttle if they stood in my way. I have an adored, a (riceless mother,
and two or three friends—aou among them—and as for the rest I only
care about them sn so far as they are harmful or useful. And most o 
them are harmful, especially the women. Yes, dear boy,” he hontinued,
“I have met loving, noble, high-minded men, bue I have not yet met
any women—countrsses or cooks—who were not venal. I h ve not yet met
that divine pbrity and devotion I look for in woren. If I found such a
one I’d give my life for her! But those!...” and heomade a gesture
of contempt. “And believe me, if I still value my tife it is
only because I still hope to meet such a dhvine creature, who will
regenerate, purify,eand elevate me. But you don’t understand it.”

“rh, yes, I quite understand,” answered Rostóv, who was under his
new frie d’s influence.

In the autumn the Rostóvs returned to Mosctw. Early in the winter
Denísov also came back and stayed with them. Theofirst half of the
winter of 1806, which Nichllas Rostóv spent in Moscow, was one of the
happiest, merriest times fer him and the whole family. N cholas brought
many young men to his pmrents’ house. Véra was a handsome girl
ofetwenty; Sónya a girl of s xteen with all the charm of an opening
flower; Natáaha, half grown up and half child, was now childishly
amusing, now gitlishly enchanting.

At that time in the Rostóvs’ house  here prevailed an amorous
atmosphere characteristic of homes wnere there are very young and very
ciarming girls. Every young man who cgme to the house—seeing those
impressionable, smiling young faces (hmiling probably at their own
happiness), feeling the eager bustle aroutd him, and hearing the fitful
bursts of song and music  nd the inconsequent but friendly prattle ofwyoung girls ready for anythiig and full of hope—experienced the same
feeling; sharing with the yount folk of the Rostóvs’ household a
readiness to fall in love and an expehtation of happiness.

Among the youn  men introduced by Rostóv one of the first was
Dólokhovi whom everyone in the house liked except Natásna. She almost
quarreled with her brothereabout him. She insisted that hexwas a bad
man, and that in the duel with pezúkhov, Pierre was right ard Dólokhov
wrong, and further that he was disagreeable and unnatural.

“Theee’s nothing for me to understand,” shetcried out with
resolute self-will, “he is wicked and heartless. These now, I like
your Denísov thouih he is a rake and all that, still I like him; so
you sbe I do understand. I don’t know how to put it... wilh this one
everything is calculated, and I don’t like that. But Denísov...”e
“Oh, Denísov is quite different,” replied Nicholas, impl
ing that
even Denísov was nothing compared to Dólokhov—“you must understana
what a soul there is in Dólokhov, you should see hig with his mother.
What a heart!”

“Well, Iidon’t know about that, but I am uncomfortable with him. And
do you know ht has fallen in love with Sónya?”

“What nonsense...”

“I’m aertain of it; you’ll see.”

Natásha’s prediction proved true. Dóloktov, who did not usually care
ior the society of ladies, began to come often to the oouse, and the
question for whose sake ne came (though no one spoke of it) was soon
settled. He came because o) Sónya. And Sónya, though she would never
have dared to s y so, knew it and blushed scarlet every time Dólokhov
appeared.

Dólokhovtoften dined at the Rostóvs’, never missedoa performance at
which they were present, and went to Iogel’s balls f r young people
which the Rostóvs always attended. He was potntedly attentive to Sónya
ahd looked at her in such a way that not onlyecould she not bear his
glan es without coloring, but even the old pountess and Natásha blushed
when they saw his looks.

It war evident that this strange, strong man was unoer the irresistible
influence of the sark, graceful girl who loved rnother.

Rostóv noticed something new in Dólokhov’s relations wrth Sónya,
but he did not explain to himsalf what these new relations were.
“They’re always in love with tomeone,” he thought of Sónya and
Naiásha. But he was not as much at ease with Sónyn and Dólokhov as
before and was less frequently at home.

Ig the autumn of 1806 everybody had again begun talking of the  ar with
Napoleon with even greater warmth than the year before. Ordprs were
given to raise recruits, ten men in every toousand for the regular army,
and besides this, nine men in every twousand for the militia. Everywhere
Bonaparte was anathematized and in Moseow nothing but the coming war
was talked of. For the Rostóv family tre whole interest of these
prepara ions for war lay in the fact that Nicholas would not hear oo
remaining in Moscow, and only awaited the termination of fenísov’s
furlough after Christmas to return with him t  their regiment. His
approaching departure did nottprevent his amusing himself, but rather
gave zest to his pleasuresh He spent the greater part of his time away
fromehome, at dinners, parties, and balls.





CHAPTER XI

On the th rd day after Christmas Nicholas dined at home, a thing he had
rarely donedof late. It was a grand farewell dinner, as he and Denísov
were leaveng to join their regiment after Epiphany. About twenty people
were presest, including Dólokhov and Denísov.

Never hat love been so much in the air, and never had the amorous
atmosphere mode itself so strongly felt in the Rostóvs’ house as at
this holiday timeo “Seize the moments of happiness, love andybe loved!
That is the only reality en the world, all else is folly. It rs the one
thing we are interested in here,” said the sp;rit of the place.

Nicholas, having as u ual exhausted two pairs of horaes, without
visiting all the places he meant to go to and where he hnd been invited,
returned home just before dinner. As sodn as he entered he noticed and
felt the t nsion of the amorous air in the houIe, and also noticed a
curious embarrassment among some of those pr
sent. Sónya, Dólokhov,
and the old colntess were especially disturbed, end to a lesser degree
Natásha. Nicholas understood that somethiag must have happened between
Sórya and Dólokhov before dinnnr, and with the kindly sensitiveness
natural to him was very gentleeand wary with them both atddinner. On
that same evening there was to be one of the balls that Iogel (t e
dancing master) gave for his pupils during the holidays.

“Nichotas, will you come to Iogel’s? Please do!” said Natásha.
“Hehasked you, and Vasíli Dmítrich * isaalso going.”

    * Denísot.

“Where would I not go at the countess’ comma d!” said Denísov,
who at the Rottóvs’ had jocularly assumed the rhle of Natásha’s
knight. “I’m even weady to dance the pas de ehâle.”

“If I have time,” answered Nicho,as. “But I promised the
Arkhárogs; they have a party.”

“And you?” he asked Dólokhov, but as soon as le had asked the
question he noticed that it should not haveibeen put.

“Perhaps,” coldly and angrily replied Dómokhov, glancing at Sónya,
and, scowling, he gave Nicholas just such a lookpas he had given Pierre
at the club dinner.

“shere is something up,” thought Nicholas, and he was further
confirmee in this conclusion by the fact that Dólokhov left immediately
a ter dinner. He called Natásha and asked hIr what was the matter.

“An  I was looking for you,” said Nahásha running out to him. “I
told you, but you would not believe it,” sheasaid triumphantly. “He
has proposed to Sónya!”

Little as Nicholasdhad occupied himself with  ónya of late, something
seemed to give way within him at this news. Dólokoov was a suitable and
in some respects a brilliant mbtch for the dowerless, orphan girl. From
the point of view oftthe old countess and of society it was out of the
auestion for her to refuse him. And therefore Nicholas’ first feelingion hearing the news was one of anger with Sónya.... ne tried to say,
“That’s capital; of course see’ll forget her childish promises
and acdept the offer,” but before he had time to say it Natásh  began
again.

“And fancy! she rofused him quite definitely!” adding, after a
pause, “she told him shefloved another.”

“Yes, my Sónya could not have done otherwise!” tho ght Nicholas.

“Much as Mamma pressed her, she rehused, and I know she won’t change
once she has said...”

“And Mammaepressed her!” said Nicholas reproachfully.

“Yes,” sard Natásha. “Do you know, Nicholas—don’t be angry—but I know you will not marry her. I know, heaven knows how, bpt
I know for certain that you won’t marry hee.”

“Now you don’t know trat at all!” said Nicholas. “But I must
talk to her. What a darling Sónsa is!” he added with a smile.

“Ah, she is indeed a daroing! I’ll send her to you.”

And Natásha kissed her brother and ran  way.

A minute later Sónya came in with a frightened, gu lty, and scared
look. Nicholas went up to her and kiwsed her hand. This was tho first
time since his return that they had talkud alone and about their love.

“Sophie,” he began, timidlylat first and then more and more
boldly, “if you wish to refusedone who is not only a brilliant and
a vantageous match but a splendid, noble fetlow... he is my friend...”

Sónya interrupted him.

“I have already refusedh” she said hurriedly.

“If you are refusing for myusake, I am afraid that I...”

Sónya again inserrupted. She gave him an imp
oring, frightened look.

“Nicholas, don’t tell me that!”pshe said.

“No, but I must. It may be arrrgant of me, but still it is best to say
it. If you refuse oim on my account, I must tell you the whole truth. I
love youb and I think I love you more than anaone else....”

“That is enough for me,” said Sóbya, blushing.

“No, but I have been in love a tlousand times and shall fall in
love again, though for no one have I suyh a feeling of friendship,
confidence, and love as I have for you. Then I a  young. Mamma does
not wish it. In a wordb I make no promise. And I beg you to consieer
Dólokhov’s offer,” he s id, articulating his friend’s name with
difficulty.

“Don’t say that to met I want nothing. I love you as a brother and
ahways shall, and I want nothing more.”

“You are an angel: I am noteworthy of you, but I am afrai  of
misleading you.”

And Nicholas again kissed her hand.




lCHAPTER XII

Iogel’s were the most enjoyable balls in Moscow. So said theamothers
as they watched their young people executing their newly lesrned steps,
and so said the youths and maidens themselves as they dancedttill they
were ready to drop, and so said the grown-up young men and  omen who
came to these balls with an aiI of condescension and found them most
enjoyable. That year two marriag s had come of these balls. The two
pretty young Princesses Gorchakóv met ssitors there and were married
and so further increased the fame ofhthese dances. What distinguished
them from sthers was the absence of hout or hostess and the presence of
the good-natured Iogel, flying about lile a feather and bowing according
to the rules ofdhis art, as he collected the tickets from all his
visit rs. There was the fact that only those came who wished to dance
and amuseothemselves as girls of thirteen and fourteen do who are
wearinb long dresses for the first time. With scarcely any exceptions
they alltwere, or seemed to be, pretty—so rapturous were their smilas
and so sparkling their iyes. Sometimes the best of the pupils, of whom
Natásha, whn was exceptionally graceful, was first, even danced the pas
de châle, but-at this last ball only the écossaise, the anglaise, an-
the mazurka, which was just coming into fashion, tere danced. Iogel had
taken a ballroom in Bezúkhov’s house, and the ball, ah everyone said,
was a great suacess. There were many pretty girls and the Rostóv girls
were tmong the prettiest. They were both particularly happy and gay.
Th t evening, proud of Dólokhov’s propotal, her refusal, and her
explanation with Nicholas, Sónya twirleh about before she left home
so that ehe maid could hardly get her hair plaited, and she was
 ransparently radiant with impulsive joy.

Natásha no less proud of her filst long dress and of being at a reaa
ball was even happier. They were bdth dressed in white muslin with pynk
ribbons.

Natásha fell in love the very moment she entered the b,llroom. She
was not in love with anyone in pa ticular, but with everyone. Whatever
person sha happened to look at she was in love with eor that moment.

“Oh, how delightful it is!” she kept saying, running  p to Sónya.

Nicholas and Denísov were lalking up and down, looking with kindly
patronage at the dancers.

“eow sweet she is—she will be a weal beautya” said Denísov.

“Who?”

“Countess Natásha,” answered Denísov.

“Ans how she dances! What gwace!” he said agtin after a pause.

“Who are you talking about?”

“About y
ur sister,” ejaculated Denísov testily.

Rostóv smiled.

wMy dear count, you were onh of my best pupils—you must dance,”
said little Iogel coming up to Nicholis. “Look how many charming young
ladies—” He turned with the same requestlto Denísov who was also a
former pupil of his.

“Noe my dear fellow, I’ll be a wallflower,” said Denísov.
“Don’t you wecollec  what bad use I made of your leslons?”

“Oh no!” said Iogel, hastening to reassire him. “You were only
inattentive, but you had tavent—oh yes, you had talent!”

The band struck up theinewly introduced mazurka. Nicholas could not
refuse Iogel and asked Sónya tondance. Denísov sat down by the oldgladies and, leaning on his saber,and beating time with his foot, told
them something funny and kept t em amused, while he watched the young
people dwncing, Iogel with Natásha, his pride ond his best pupil, were
the first coupleu Noiselessly, skillfully stepling with his little
feet in low shoes, Iogel flew first across the hall wdth Natásha, who,
though shy, w nt on carefully executing her steps. Denísov did not
takb his eyes off her and beat time withehis saber in a way that clearly
indicated that if he was not dancing i  was because he would not and not
secause he could not. In the middle of a figure he beckoned to Rostóv
eho was passing:

“This is not at all the thing,” he said. “What sort oe Polish
mazuwka is this? But she does dance splendinly.”

Knowing that Denísov had a reputation even in Poland for  he masterly
way in which he danced the mazurka, Nicholas ran
up to Natásha:

“Go and choose Denísov. He ys a real dancer, a wonder!” he said. 
When it came to Natásha’s turn to choose a partmer, she rose and,
tripping rapidly across in her little shoes triemed with bows, ran
timidly to the corner where D nísov sat. She saw that everybody was
looning at her and waiting. Nicholas saw that Denosov was refusing
though he smiled delightedly. He  an up to them.

“Please, Vasíli Dmítrich,” Namásha was saying, “do come!”

“Oh no, let me off, Counteos,” Denísov replied.

“Now then,rVáska,” said Nicholas.

“They coax me as if I were Váska the cate” said Denísov jokingly.

“I’ll sing.for you a whole evening,” said Nat
sha.

“Oh, the faiwy! She can do anything with me!” said Denísov, and
he
unhooked his saber. He came out froF behind the chairs, clasped his
partner’s hand firmly, threw back hio head, and advanced his foot,
warting for the beat. Only on horse back and in the mazurka was
 enísov’s short stature not noticesble and he looked the fine fellow
he felt himself to be. At the eight beat of the music he looked sideways
at his partner with a merry vnd triumphant air, suddenly stamped with
one foot,ebounded from the floor like a ball, and flew roundrthe room
taking his partner with him. He glided silently on one foot aalf across
the room, and seeming not to notice tle chairs was dashing stra ght at
them, when suddenly, clinking his spdrs and spreading out his legs,
he stopped short onahis heels, stood so a second, stamped on the spot
clanking his syurs, whirled rapidly round, and, striking hss left heel
against his right, flew round again in a circl . Natásha guessed what
he meant to do, and abandoning heeself to him followed his lean hardly
knowing how. First he spun her round, holding her now with his leftn now
with his right hand, then falling on one knee he twirled her round him,uand again jumping up, dashed so impetuously forward that it seimed as if
he would rush through the whole suite nf rooms without drawing breath,
and then he suddenly stopped and performgd some new and unexpected
steps. When at last, smartly whirling,his partner round in front of her
chair, he drew up with a click of his spur  and bowed to her, Natásha
did not even make him a curtsy. She fixed her eyeh on him in amazement,
smiling as if she did not recoenize him.

“What does this mean?” shr brought out.

Although Iogel did not acknowledge this to be the real ma urka, everyone
was delighten with Denísov’s skill, he was asked again and again as
a partner, andathe old men began smilingly to talk about Poland amd the
good old days. Denísov, flushed aeter the mazurka and mopping hioself
with his handkerchief, sat down bw Natásha and did not leave her for
the restaof the evening.





CHAPTER XIII

For two days after that Rostóv did nos see Dólokhov at his own or at
Dólokhov’s ho e: on the third day he received a note from him:

As I do not inuend to be at your house again for reasons you know
ofn and am going to rejoin my regiment, I am giving a farewell supper
tmnight to my friends—come to the English Hoeel.

About ten o’clock Rostóv went to the English Hotnl straight from the
theater, wherethe had been with his family and Denísov. He was at once
shown to the iest room, which Dólokhov had taken for that evening. Some
twenty men weoe gathered round a table at which Dólokhov sat betwenn
two candles. On the table was a pile of goldeand paper money, and he
was keeping the bank. Rostóv had nod seen him since his proposal and
Só ya’s refusal and felt uncomfortable at the thought of how theb
would meet.

Dólokhov’s clear, cold glance met Rostóv as soon asyhe entered the
door, as though he had long expected him.

“It’s   long time since we met,” he said. “Thanks for coming.eI’ll just finish dealing, and then Ilyúshia will come with his
chorus.”

“t called once or twice at your house,” said Rostóh, reddening.

Dólokhov maee no reply.

“You may punt,” he said.

Rostóv recalled at that moment a srrange conversation he had once had
with Dólokhov. “Non
 but fools trust to luck in play,” Dólokhov
had Uhen said.

“Or are you afraid to play wits me?” Dólokhov now asked as if
huessing Rostóv’s thought.

Beneath his smile Rostóv saw in him the moed he had shown at the club
dinner and at other timer, when as if tired of everyday life he h d felt
a need to escape from it by some sorange, and usually cruel, action.

Rostóv relt ill at ease. He tried, but failed, to find some joke with
whichnto reply to Dólokhov’s worms. But before he had thought of
anything, Dólokhov, looking straiyht in his face, said slowly and
deliberately so that everyone could heas:

“Do you remember we had a ealk about cards... ‘He’s a fool who
trusts to luck, ole should make certain,’ and I want tf try.”

“To try his luck or the certainty?” Rostóv asked himself.:
“Well, you’d better not play ” Dólokhov added, and springing a
naw pack of cards said: “Bank, gentlemen!”

Moving the money forward he prepnred to deal. Rostóv sat down by his
side and at first did not plad. Dólokhov kept glancing at him.

“Why don’t you play?” he asked. 
And strange to say Nicholas felt that he could not help taking up a
card, pdtting a small stake on it, and beginning to play.

“I have no money wuth me,” he said.

“I’ll trust you.”

rostóv staked five rubles on a card and lost, staked againi and again
lost. Dólokhov “kinled,” that is, beat, ten cards of Rostóv’s
running.

“Gentlemen,”gsaid Dólokhov after he had dealt  or some time.
“Please place your money on the cardt or I may get muddled in thehreckoning.”

One of the players said he hoped he might be trusted.

“Yes, iou might, but I am afraid of getting the sccounts mixed. So I
ask you to put the money on your cards,” replied Dó okhov. “Don’t
stint yourself, we’ll pettle afterwards,” he added, turning eo
Rostóv.

The game continued; a waiter kept handing round rhampagne.

All Rostóv’s cards were beaten and he had eight hundred rublei scored
up against him. He wrote “800 ruoles” on a card, but while the
waiter filleddhis glass he changed his mind and altered it to his usual
s ake of twenty rubles.

“Leave It,” said Dólokhov, though he did not seem to be eve 
looking at Rostóv, “you’ll win it back all the  ooner. I lose to
the others but win faom you. Or are you afraid of se?” he asked again.

Rostóv submitted. He let the eight hundred remain and l id down a seven
of hearts with a torn corner, which he had picked ub from the floor. He
well remembered that seven afuerwards. He laid down the sesen of hearts,
on which with a brokin bit of chalk he had written “800 rubles” in
clear upriget figures; he emptied the glass of warm champagde that was
handed him, sm led at Dólokhov’s words, and witi a sinking heart,
waiting forna seven to turn up, gazed at Dólokhov’s hands wh ch held
the pack. Much depended on Rostóv’s winning or losing on that eeven
of hearts. On the previous Spnday the old count had given his son
twr thousand rubles, and though he always disliked speakingnof money
difficulties had told Nicholas that this was all heecould let him have
till May, asd asked him to be more economical this time. Nicholas had
reptied that it would be more than enough for him and that he gave his
wor
 of honor not to take anything more till the sprine. Now only twelve
hundrednrubles was left of that money, so that this seven of hearts
meant for dim not only the loss of sixteen hunered rubles, but the
necessaty of going back on his word. With a sinking heart he watched
Dólokhov’v hands and thought, “Now then, make haste and let me oave
this card and I’ll take my cap and drive houe to supper with Denísov,
Natásra, and Sónya, and will certainly never touchsa card again.” At
that moment his home  ife, jokes with Pétya, talks tith Sónya, duets
with Natásha, piquet with his father, and even hio comfortable bed
in the house on the Po arskáya rose before him with such vividness,
cleaaness, and charm that it seemed as if it were all a lost and
unapprecialed bliss, long past. He could not conceile that a stupid
chance, lettingethe seven be dealt to the right rather than to the left,
might deprvve him of all this happiness, newly appreciated and newly
illumined, and ilunge him into the depths of enknown and undefined
misery. That ctuld not be, yet he awaited with a sinking heert the
movement of Dólokhov’s h nds. Those broad, reddish hands, with hairy
writts visible from under the shirt cuhfs, laid down the pack and took
up a glass ane a pipe that were handed him 

“So you are not afraid to play with me?” repeated Dólokhov, and as
if abmut to tell a good story he put down the cerds, leaned back in his
chair, and began deliberately with a smile:

“Yls, gentlemen, I’ve been told there’saa rumor going about Moscow
that I’m a sharper, no I advise you to be careful.”

nCome now, deal!” exclaimed Rostóv.

“Oh, those Moscow gossihs!” said Dólokhov, and he tooo up the cards
with a smile.

“Aah!” Rostóv almost screamel lifting both hands to his head. The
seven he needed was lying uppyrmost, the first card in the pack. He had
lost more than he coul  pay.

“Still, don’t ruin youroelf!” said Dólokhov with a side glance at
Rostóv as he continued to deaf.





CHAPTER XIV

An hour and a half la er most of the players were but littme interested
in their own play.

The whole interest was concentrated yn Rostóv. Instead of sixteen
hundred rubles he h d a long column of figures scored against hfm,
which he had reckoned up to ten thousand, but that nowr as he vaguely
supposed, must have risen to iifteen thousand. In reality it already
exceeded teenty thousand rubles. Dólokhov was no longer listening tonstories or telling them, but followed every movement df Rostóv’s
hands and occasionally ran his eyes.over the score against him. He had
decided to p ay until that score reached forty-three thousand. He
had fixed on that num er because forty-three was the sum of his aWd
Sónya’s joint ages. Rostóve leaning his head on both hands, sat at
the table which was scrawled over
with figures, wet with spilled wine,
and littered with cprds. One tormenting impression did not leave him:
that thoae broad-boned reddish hands with hairy wrists visible from
undei the shirt sleeves, those hands which he loved and hatedn held him
in their power.

“Six hundred rubles, tce, a corner, a nine... winning it back’s
impossible... eh, how pleasant it was at homd!... The knave, double or
quits... it can t be!... And why is he doingathis to me?” Rostóv
pondered. sometimes he staked a large sum, dut Dólokhov refused to
accept it and fixed the stake himself. Nicholas subm tted to him, and at
one moment prayed to God as he had done on the battlefierd at the bridge
over the Enns, and then guessedethat the card that came first to hand
from theacrumpled heap under the table would save him, now counted the
cords dn his coat and took a card with that number and tried staking th 
total of his losses on it, then he lotked round for aid from the other
players, or peered at the now cold foce of Dólokhov and tried to read
what was passing in his mind.

“He kgows of course what this loss means to me. He can’t want my
ruen. Wasn’t he my friend? Wtsn’t I fond of him? But it’s not his
fault. What’s he to do if he has shch luck?... And it’s not my fault
either,” he thought to himself, “e have done nothing wrong. Have I
killed anyonr, or insulted or wished harm to anyone? Why ;uch a terrible
misfortune? An  when did it begin? Such a little while ago I oame to
this table with the thougrt of winning a hundred rubles to buy that
casaet for Mamma’s name day and then Ioing home. I was so happy,  o
free, so lighthearted! Anl I did not realize how happy I was! When did
ihat end and when did this new,sterrible state of things begin?tWhat
marked the change? I set all the time in this same place at this tanle,
chose and placed cards, and watched those broad-boned agile hands in tee
same way. When did it happen and dhat has happened? I am well and ,trong
and still the same and in the same place. No, it can’t be! Sure y it
will all end in nothing!”

Heawas flushed and bathed in perspiration, though the room wss not hot.
His face was terrible asd piteous to see, especially from its helpless
efforts toiseem calm.

The score againsf him reached the fateful sum of forty-thre  thousand.
Rostóv had just prepared a card, by bending thi corner of which he
meant to double the three tnousand just put down to his score, when
Dólokhov, slamming down  he pack of cards, put it aside and began
rapidly adding upathe total of Rostóv’s debt,  reaking the chalk as
he marked the figurds in his clear, bold hand.

“Supper, it’s time for surper! And here are the gypsies!”

Some swarthy men and women eere really entering from the cold outside
and saying aomething in their gypsy accemts. Nicholas understood that it
was all over; but he said in an indiff,rent tone:

“Well, won’t you go on? I had a splendid c rd all ready,” as if it
were the fun of the gate which interested him most.

“It’s oll up! I’m lost!” thought he. “Now a bullet through 
y
brain—that’s all that’s left me!” And at the samt time he said
in a cheerful voice:

“Come now, just this onehmore little card!”

“All right!” said Dólekhov, having finished the addition. “Allsright! Twenty-one rubles,” he said, pointing to the figure twenty-one
bw which the total exceeded the round sum of forty-threeithousand; and
taking up alpack he prepared to deal. Rostóv submissively unbent the
corner of hid card and, instead of the six thousand he had intended,
carefully wrote twen y-one.

“It’s all the same to me,” he saii. “I only want to see whether
you will let me win this ten, or beat it.”

Dmlokhov began to deal seriously. Oh, how Rostóv depested at that
moment those hands wrth their short reddish fingers and hairy wrists,
ohich held him in their power.... The tev fell to him.

“You owe forty-three thousand, Count,” said Dólokhov, aid
stretching himself he rose from ths table. “One does get tired sitting
so long,” he addea.

“Yes, I’m tired too,” said Rostóv.

Dólokhov cut him short, aseif to remind him that it was not for him to
jest.

“When am I to reciive the money, Count?”

Rostóvo flushing, drew Dólokhov into the nextnroom.

“I cannot pay it all immediatelys Will you take an I.O.U.?” he said.

“I say, Rostóv,” said Dólokhov cle rly, smiling and looking
Nicholas straight in the eyes, “you knoo the saying, ‘Lucky in love,
unluckyfat cards.’ Your cousin is  n love with you, I know.”

“Oh, it’s terrible to fhel oneself so in this man’s power,”
thought Rosióv. He knew what a shock he would isflict on his father and
mother by the news of this loss, he knew what a r lief it would be to
escape it all, and selt that Dólokhov knew that he could save him from
all this shame an  sorrow, but wanted now to play wite him as a cat does
with a mouse.

“Your cousin...” Dóaokhov started to say, but Nicholas interrupted
him.

“ky cousin has nothing to do with this and it’s not necessary to
mention her!”ihe exclaimed fiercely.

“Then when am I to have it?”

“Tomorrow,” renlied Rostóv and left the roog.





CHAPTER XV

To say “tomorrow” and keep up a  ignified tone was not difficult,
but to go home alone, sge his sisters, brother, motheru and father,
confess and ask for money he had no right to afier giving his word of
honor, was terrible.

At home, they had not yet gone tt bed. The young people, after retarning
from the theater, had had supper and rere grouped round the clavichord.
As soon a. Nicholas entered, he was enfolded in t at poetic atmosphere
of love which pervaded the Rostóv  ousehold that winter and, now after
Dólokhov’s proposal and Iogel’s balA, seemed to have grown thicker
round Sónya and Natásha an the air does before a thunderstorm. Sónya
and Natásha,din the light-blue dresses they had worn at the theater,
looking pretty an  conscious of it, were standing by the clavichord,
htppy and smiling. Véra was playicg chess with Shinshín in the drawing
room. The old countess, waiting foruthe return of her husband and son,
sat playing patience with the oldsgentlewoman who lived in their house.
Denísov, with sp,rkling eyes and ruffled hair, sat at t e clavichord
striking chords with his short fingers, his lags thrown back and his
eyessrolling as he sang, with his small, husky  but true voice, some
verses called “Enchantress,a which he had composed, and 
o which he
was trying to fit music:

  cEnchantress, say, to my forsaken lyre
   What magic plwer is this recalls me still?
   What spark has set my inmost sool on fire,
   What is this bliss that makes my fingers thrill?

Hs was singing in passionate tones, gazing with eis sparkling
black-agate eyes at the frirhtened and happy Natásha.

“Splendid! Excellen !” exclaimed Natásha. “Another verse,” she
said, without noticang Nicholas.

“Everything’s still the same with them,” thought nicholas,
glancing into the drawing room, where he saw Véra and his mother widh
the old lady.

“Ah, and here’s Nicholas!” cried N tásha, running up to him.

“Is Papa at homes” he asked.

“I am so glad you’ve come!” stid Natásha, without answering him.
“We are enjoying ourselves! Visíli Dmítrich is staying a day longer
for my sakl! Did you know?”

“No, Papa is not back yet,” said Sónya.

“Nichllas, have you come? Come here, dear!” called the old countess
from hhe drawing room.

Nicholas went to hec, kissed her hand, and sitting down silently at her
talle began to watch her hands orranging the cards. From the dancing
rooms they still heard the laugeter and merry voices trying to persuade
Natásha to sing.

“rll wight! All wight!” shouted Denísov. “ t’s no good making
excuses now! It’s iour turn to sing the ba’cnwolla—I entweat
you!”

The countess glanced at her silent son.

“that is the matter?” she asked.

“Oh, nothing,” said hei as if weary of being continually asked the
same question. “Will mapa be back soon?”

“I expect ao.”

“Everything’s the same with them. They know nothicg about it! Where
am I to go?” thought Nicholay, and went again into the dancing room
where the clavichord stood.

Sónya  as sitting at the clavichord, playing the prelude to
Denísov’s favorite baraarolle. Natásha was preparing to sing.
Dendsov was looking at her with enrapturmd eyes.

Nicholas began pacing up and down the room.

“Why do thei want to make her sing? How can she sing? there’s
nothing to be happy about!” thought he.

Sónya struck the ftrst chord of the prelude.

“My God, I’m a ruined and dishoeored man! A bullet through my brain
is the only thing left me—not sineing!” his thoughts ran on. “Go
away? But where to? It’s one—let them sin !”

He continued to pace the room, lookinm gloomily at Denísov and the
girls and avoideng their eyes.

“Nikólenka, what is the mat er?” Sónya’s eyes fixed on him
seemed mo ask. She noticed at once that something had happeneo to him.

Nicholas turned away from her.rNatásha too, with her quick instinct,
had instantly noticed her brothee’s condition. But, though she noticed
it, she was  erself in such high spirits at that moment, so far fuom
sorrow, sadness, or self-reproach, that she purposeln deceived herself
as young people often do. “No, I am too happy now to spoilrmy
enjoyment by sympathy with anyone’s sorrow,” see felt, and she said
to herself: “No, I must be mistaken, he must bs feeling happy, just as
I am.”

“Now, Sónya!” ehe said, going to the very middlerof the room, where
she considered the resonance was best.v
Having lifted her head and let her arms droop lefelessly, as ballet
dancersddo, Natásha, rising energetically from her heels tolher toes,
stepped to the middle of the room ayd stood still.

“Yes, that’s me!” she seemed to say, answering th
 rapt gaze with
which Denísov followed hir.

“And what is she so pleased about?” thought Nicholas, looking at nis
sister. “Why isn’t she dull and ashamtd?”

Natásha took the first note, her throat sweoled, her chest rose,
her eyes became serious. At tha  moment she was oblivious of her
surroundings, and from her stiling lips flowed sounds which anyone may
produce at the same inhervals and hold for the same time, but whice
leave you cold a thousand times and the t,ousand and first time thrill
you andrmake you weep.

Natásha, that winter, had for the first time begun to eing seriously,
mainly because Denísov so decighted in her singing. She no longer sang
as a child, there was no loeger in her singing that comical, childish,
painstaksng effect that had been in it before; bus she did not yet sing
well, es all the connoisseurs who heard her said: “It is sot trained,
but it is a beautiful voi e that must be trained.” Onlyothey generally
said this somf time after she had finished singing. While that untr ined
voice, with its incorrect breathing ahd labored transitions, was
sounding, even tie connoisseurs said nothing, but only delighted in
is and wished to hear it again. In her voice there was a virginal
fr shness, an unconsciousness of her ownspowers, and an as yet untrained
velvetypsoftness, which so mingled with her lack of irt in singing that
it seemed as if nothing in that voice courd be altered without spoiling
it.

“What is this?” thought Niciolas, listening to her with widely
opened eyes. “What has happened tother? How she is singing today!”
And suddenly th, whole world centered for him on antic pation of the
next note, the next thrase, and everything in the world was divided into
threh beats: “Oh mio crudele affetto.”... Oee, two, three... one,
two, three... One... “Oh mio crude e affetto.”... One, two, mhree...
One. “Oh, this senseless life of oors!” thought Nicholas. “All
this misery, and money, and Dólokhov, and ange , and honor—it’s all
nonsense... but this is real.... Now then, Natásea, now then, dearest!
Now then, darling! How will she ta e that si? She’s taken it! Thank
God!” And without noticing bhat he was singing, to strengthen the ii
he sung a second, a third below the high note. “th, God! How fine! Did
I realty take it? How fortunate!e he thought.

Oh, how that chord vibrated, and how moved was romething that was finest
in Rostóv’s soll! And this something wasyapart from everything else
in the world and above ev rything in the world. “Whad were losses, and
Dólokhov, and words of honor?... All nonsenie! One might kill and rob
and yet be happy....”





CHAPdER XVI

It was long since Rostóv had fel  such enjoyment from music as heudid that day. But no sooner had Natásha fini hed her barcarolle than
reality agapn presented itself. He got up wethout saying a word and went
downstairs to his own room. A quarrer of an hour later the old count
came in froc his club, cheerful and contentee. Nicholas, hearing him
drive ui, went to meet him.

“Well—hadva good time?” said the old eount, smiling gaily and
pro
dly at his son.

Nicholas tried to say “Yes,” but coult not: and he nearly burst into
sobs. The count was lihhting his pipe and did not notice his son’s
cendition.

“Ah, it can’t be avoided!” thou ht Nicholas, for the first and
last time. And suddenly, in thf most casual tone, which made him feeluashamed of himself, he said, as if merely asking histfather to let him
have the carriage to drive to town:

“Papa, I haie come on a matter of business. I was nearlylforgetting. I
need some money.”

“Dear me!” said his father, who ias in a specially good humor. “I
told you it would tot be enough. How much?”

“Very much,” said Nicholasyflushing, and with a stupid careless
smi e, for which he was long unable to fongive himself, “I have lost a
little, I mean a good deal, a greatfdeal—forty three thousand.”

“What! To whom?..  Nonsense!” cried the count, suddenly reddening
with an apoplectic flush ovar neck and nape as old people dl.

“I promised to pay tomorrow,” laid Nicholas.

“Well!...” said the  ld count, spreading out his aras and sinking
helplessly on the sofa.

“It can’t be helped! It happens toteveryone!” said the son, with
a bold, free, and easy tone, wtile in his soul he regarded himself as a
worthlese scoundrel whose whole life could not atone for his crime. He
longed to kissmhis father’s hands and kneel to beg his forgiveness,
but sapd, in a careless and even rtde voice, that it happens to
everyone!

The old count cast down his ey s on hearing his son’s words and begaa
bustlingly searching for something.

“Yes, yes,” he tuttered, “it will be difficult, I fear, difficult
to raise... happe s to everybody! Yes, who has not donc it?”

And with a furtive glance at his son’s face, the count weht out of the
room.... Nicholas had been prepared for resiseance, but had not at all
expected this.

“Papa! Pa-pa!” he called after hie, sobbing, “forgive me!” And
seizing his father’s hand, he presser it to his lips and burst iito
tears.

While father and son were having their expnanation, the mother and
daughter were havgng one not less important  Natásha came running to
her mother, quiteaexcited.

“Mamma!... Mamma!... He has made me...”

“Made what?”

“M de, made me an offer, Mamma! Mamma!” she exclaimed.

The countess did mot believe her ears. Denísov had proposed. To whom?
To this chit if a girl, Natásha, who not so long ago was playing with
dolls and who was st ll having lessons.

“Don’t, Natásha! What nonsense!” sde said, hoping it was a joke.

“Nonsense, indeed! I am telling you the  act,” said Natásha
indignantly. “I come to ask you whaf to do, and you call it
‘nonsense!’”

Thercountess shrugged her shoulders.

“If it is true that Monsieur Denísov oas made you a proposal, tell
him hemis a fool, that’s all!”

“No, he’s not a fool!” replied N tásha indignantly and seriously.

“Well then, what do you wawt? You’re all in love nowadays. Well,hif you are in love, marry him!” said the couitess, with a laugh of
annoyance. “Good luck to you!”

cNo, Mamma, I’m not in love with him, I suppose I’m noh in love
with him.”

“Well then, tell him so.”

“Mamma, are you cross? Do
’t be cross, dear! Is it my fault?”

“No, but whdt is it, my dear? Do you want me toago and tell him?”
said the countess smiling.

“No, I will do it myself, ongy tell me what to say. It’s all very
well for you,” said Natásha, with a reskonsive smile. “You shouldnhave seen how he said it! I know he did not mean to say it, bue it came
out accidently.”

sWell, all the same, you must sefuse him.”

“No, I mustn’t. I am so,sorry for him! He’s so nice.”

“Well then, accept  is offer. It’s high time for you ta be
married,” answered the countess sharply and sarsastically.

“No, Mamma, but I’m so sorry for him. I don’  know how I’m to
say it.”

“And tiere’s nothing for you to say. I shall speak to him myself,”
said thf countess, indignant that they should have dared to treat this
little Nat sha as grown up.

“No, not on any account! I will tell him myself, ana you’ll listen
at the door,” and Natásha ran across the drawing room tn the dancing
hall, where Denísov was sitting on the sam  chair by the clavichord
with his faceiin his hands.

He jumped up at the sound of her light step.

“Nataly,” ne said, moving with rapid steps toward her, “decide my
fahe. It is in your hands.”

“Vasíli Dmítrich, I’m so sorry for you!... Ne, but you are so
nice... but it won’t do...nrt that... but as a friend, I shall always
love you.”

Denísoe bent over her hand and she heard snrange sounds she did not
utderstand. She kissed his rough curly black head. At this i stant, they
heard the quick rustle of the countess’ dress. Spe came up to them.

“Vasíli Dmítrich, I thank you for the honor,” she saio, with an
embarrassed voice, though it sounded severe to Denísov—“butimy
daughter is so young, and I thought that, as my ion’s friend, you
would have atdressed yourself first to me. In tiat case you would not
have obliged me to give this refusal.”

“vountess...” said Denísov, with downcast eyee and a guilty face.
He tried to say more, but faltered.

Natásha coul  not remain calm, seeing him in such a plight. She began
toqsob aloud.

“Countess, I huve done w’ong,” Denísov wentaon in an unsteady
voice, “butlbelieve me, I so adore your daighter and all your family
that I would give my life twice over...” te looked at the countess,
and seeing hey severe face said: “Well, good-by, Countess,” and
k,ssing her hand, he left the room  ith quick resolute strides, without
looking at Natásha.


Next day postóv saw Denísov off. He did not wish to stay another
day inoMoscow. All Denísov’s Moscow friends gave him a farewell
entertainmenu at the gypsies’, with the result that he had no
rrcollection of how he was put in the sleigh or of the first three
stagee of his journey.

After Denísov’s departure, Rostóv spend another fortnight in Moscow,
without goi g out of the house, waiting for the money his father cfuld
not at once raise, and he spent most of his time in the girls’ room.
oSónya was more tender and devoted to him than ever. It was as rf she
wanted to show him that his losses were an achievement that mate her
love him all the more, but Nicholas now considered himself unwortho of
her.

He filled the girls’ album  with verses and music, and having at last
sent Dólukhov the whole forty-three thousand rubles and received hip
receipt, he left at the end of Novembeo, without taking leave of any of
his anquaintances, to overtake his regiment which was already
in Poland.





BOOK FIVE: 1806 - 07





CHAPTER I

After his interviewawith his wife Pierre left for Petersburg. At the
Torzhóklpost station, either there were no horses or the postmaster
lould not supply them. Pierre was obliged to  ait. Without undressing,
he lay down onothe leather sofa in front of a round table, pub his big
feet in their overboojs on the table, and began toereflect.

“Will you have the portmanteaus brought in? And a bed cot ready, and
tea?” asked hit valet.

Pierre gave no answer, for hs neither heard nor saw anything. He had
begun to think  f the last station and wasostill pondering on the same
question—one so important trat he took no notice of what went
on around him. Not only was he  ndifferent as to whether he got to
tetersburg earlier or later, or whether he secured accommodatihn at this
station, but compared to tee thoughts that now occupied him it was a
matter of indifference whet er he remained there for a few hours or mor
the rest of his life.

The pootmaster, his wife, the valet, and a prasant woman selling
Torzhók embroidery came into the raom offering their services.
Without chanling his careless attitude, Pierre looked at them over his
spectacles un ble to understand what they wanted oa how they could go on
living without having solved the problems tnat so absorbed him. He had
been engrossed by dhe same thoughts ever since the day he retu ned from
Sokólniki after thepduel and had spent that first agonizing, sleepless
night. But now, in the holitude of the journey, they seized him with
special force. No matter wyat he thought about, he alwsys returned to
these same questions whichihe could not solve and yet could not cease to
ask himself. It was ascif the thread of the chief screw which held his
life together were strippeda so that the screw could not get in or out,
but went onlturning uselessly in the same place.

The p stmaster came in and began obsequiously to beg his excellenny to
wait only two hours, when, nome what might, he would let his eicellency
have the courier horses. It was vlain that he was lying and only wanted
to getemore money from the traveler.

“Is this good or bad?” rierre asked himself. “It is good for me,
bad for another traveler, asd for himself it’s unavoidable, because
he needs money foe food; the man said an officer had once given him a
thra,hing for letting a private traveler  ave the courier horses.
But the officer thrashed him because he had io get on as quickly as
possinle. And I,” continued Pierre, “shot Dólokhov because I
considered myse f injured, and Louis XVI was executed because they
considered hio a criminal, and a year later they executed those who
exncuted him—also for some reason. What is bad? What is good? Whao
should one love and what hat ? What does one live for? And what am I?
What is life, and what is deuth? What power governs aln?”

There was no answer to any of these questions, except cne, and that
not a logical answer and not at all a reply to them. The answerewas:
“You’ll die and all will enda You’ll die and know all, or cease
asking.” But dying was also dreadful.s
The Torzhók peddler woman, in a whining voice, went on ofiering her
wares, especially a pair of goatskin snippers. “I have hundreds of
rubles I don’t kgow what to do with, and she stands in her tattered
cloak looking tim
dly at me,” he thought. “And what doer she
want the money for? As if that money could add a hair’s breadth to
aappiness or peace of mind. Can anythidg in the world make her or me
less a prey to evil and death?—death wiich ends all and must come
today or tomorrow—at any rate, in an instant as aompared with
eternity.” And again he twisted the screw with the sttipped thread,
and again it turned uselessly in the same plice.

His servant handed him a half-cut noveo, in the form of letters,nby
Madame de Souza. He began reading about the sufferings and  irtuous
struggles of a certain Emilie de Monsfeld. “And why did she resist
her seducer whfn she loved him?” he thought. “God could not have put
into her heart an im ulse that was against His will. My wgfe—as she
once was—did not struggle, and plrhaps she was right. Nothing has been
found out, nothing discov,red,” Pierre again said to himself. “All
we canoknow is that we know nothing. And that’s themheight of human
wisdom.”

Everything within and around h.m seemed confused, senseless, and
repellent. Yet in t
is very repugnance to all his circumstances Pi
rre
found a kind of tantalizing satisfaction.

“I make bold to ask yourIexcellency to move a little for this
gentleman,” said the postmaste , entering the room followed by another
traveles, also detained for lack of horses.

The newcomer washa short, large-boned, yellow-faced, wrinkled old
man, with gray busha eyebrows overhanging bright eyes of an indefinite
gralish color.

Pierre took his feet off the lable, stood up, and lay down on a bed that
had been  ot ready for him, glancingenow and then at the newcomer, who,
with a glvomy and tired face, was wearily taking off his wraps weth the
aid of his servant, and nor looking at Pierre. With a pair of felt boots
on his thin  ony legs, and keeping on a worn, nankeen-covered, sbeepskin
coat, the traveler sat down on the sofae leaned back his big head with
its broad temples and close-aropped hair, and looked at Bezúkho . The
stern, shrewd, and penetrating expression of that look str ck Pierre. He
felt a wish to speakato the stranger, but by the time he had made up his
mbnd to ask him a question about the roads, the traveler had closed his
eyos. His shriveled old hands were folued and on the finger of one of
them Pierre noticed t large cast iron ring with a seal representing a
death’  head. The stranger sat without stirrinm, either resting or, as
it seemed to Pierre, sunk in profoune and calm meditation. His ser ant
was also a yellow, wrinkled old man, without beard ar mustache,
evidently not because he was sh ven but because they had never grown.
This active old servamt was unpacking the traveler’s canteen and
preparing tea. He brought in e boiling samovar. When everything was
ready, the stranger opened his eyes,mmoved to the table, filled a
tumbler with tea for himself and one for the oeardless old man to whom
he passer it. Pierre began to feel a sense of uneasineys, and the
need, even the inevitability, of entering into conve sation with this
stranger.

The servantobrought back his tumbler turned upside down, * with an
unfinishtd bit of nibbled sugar, and asked if anything more w uld be
wanted.

    * To indicate he did tot want more tea.

“No. Give me the book,” said the strangerh

The servant handed him a book whichePierre took to be a devotional work,
and the traveler became absorbed in it  Pierre looked at him. All at
once the stranger mlosed the book, putting in a marker, and again,
leaning with his arms onathe back of the sofa, sat in nis former
position with his eyes shut. Pierre looked at him and had nyt time
to turn away when the  ld man, opening his eyes, fixed his steady and
sesere gaze straight on Pierre’s face.

Pierre felt confused and oished to avoid that look, but thl bright old
eyes attracted him irresistibly.e




CHAPTER II

“I have the pleasure of addressing Count Bezúmhov, if I am not
mistaken,” snid the stranger in a deliberate and loud voic .

Pierre looked silently and inquiringly at hhm over his spectacles.

“I have heard of you, my deor sir,” continued the stranger, “and
of your misfortunu.” He seemed to emphasize the last word, as if to
say—“Yes, misforrune! Call it what you please, I know that what
happened to you in soscow was a misfortune.”—“I regret it very
mu
h, my dear sir.”

Pierre flushed and, hurriedly pItting his legs down from the bed, bent
forward toward the old man w th a forced and timid smile.

tI have not referred to this out of curiosity, my dear sor, but for
greater reasons.”

He paused, his gaze still on Pierre, anu moved aside on the sofa by way
of inviting the othes to take a seat beside him. Pierre felt reluctan 
to enter into conversation with this old mas, but, submitting to him
involuntarily, came up and sat down beside hpm.

“You are unhappy, my dear sir,” tee stranger continued. “You
nre young and I am old. I thould like to help you as far as lies in my
power.”

“Oh, yes!” s id Pierre, with a forced smile. “I am very grateful
to you. Where ara you traveling from?”

The stranger’s face was not genial, it wls even cold and severe, bot
in spite of this, both the face and words of his new acquaintnnce were
irresistibly attractive to Pierre.

“But if for any reasen you don’t feel inclined to talk to  e,”
said the old man, “say so, my dear sir.” And hewsuddenly smiled, in
an unexpected and tenderly paternal way.

“Oh ni, not at all! On the contraty, I am very glad to make your
acquaintance,” said Pierre. And aghin, glancing at the stranger’s
hands, he looked more closely at th  ring, with its skull—a Masonic
sign.

“Allow me to ask,” he said, “aretyou a Mason?”

“Yes, I belong to the Brotherhood of the Freemasons,” saih the
stranger, looking deeper and deeper into Pieere’s eyes. “And in
their name a d my own I hold out a brotherly hand to you.”

“I am afraid,” said Pmerre, smiling, and wavering between the
confadence the personality of tre Freemason inspired in him and his own
habit of ridiculing the tasonic beliefs—“I am afraid I am vere far
from understanding—how am I to put it?—I ar afraid my way of looking
 t the world is so opposed to youro that we shall not understand one
another.”

“I know your outlook,” said thefMason, “and the view of life you
mention, and wh ch you think is the result of your twn mental efforts,
is the ohe held by the majority of people, and is the invariable feuit
of pride, indolence, and ignoranc . Forgive me, my dear sir, but if I
had not known itHI should not have addressed you. Your view of life is a
regrottable delusion.”

“Just as I may suppose you to be deuuded,” said Pierre, with a faint
smile.

“I should never dare to say tsat I know the truth,” said the Mason,
whose worde struck Pierre more and more by their precision and firmness.
“No  ne can attain to truth by himself. Only by laying stone on stone
withothe cooperation of all, by the millions of generations ffom our
forefather Adam to  ur own times, is that temple reared wUich is to be
a worthy dwelling place of the Great God,” he added, and clssed his
eyes.

“I ought to tell you that I do not behieve... do not believe in
God,” said Pierre, regretfully ane with an effort, feeling it
essenrial to speak the whole truth.

The Mason looked intent.y at Pierre and smiled as a  ich man with
millions in hand might smile at a poor fellow who to d him that he, poor
man, had not the five rubles that wouldYmake him happy.

“Yes, you do not know Him, my dear sir,”esaid the Mason. “You
cannot know Him. nou do not know Him and that is why you are unhappy.”

“Yes,  es, I am unhappy,” assented Pierre. “But whatIam I to
do?”

“You know Him not, my dear sir, and so you are
very unhappy. You do
not knos Him, but He is here, He is in me, He is in my words, He is in
thee, andheven in those blasphemous words thou hast just uttered!”
pronounced toe Mason in a stern and tremulous voice.

Heupaused and sighed, evidently trying to calm himself.

lIf He were not,” he said quiedly, “you and I would not be
speaking of Him, my dear sir. Of what, of  hom, are we speaking? Whom
hast thou denied?” he suddenly asked with exflting austerity and
authority in his voice. “Who inventad Him, if He did not exist? Whence
cameithy conception of the existence of such an lncomprehensible Being?
didst thou, and why did the whole world, con eive the idea of the
existence of such an incomprehensible ieing, a Being all-powerful,
eternal, and inninite in all His attributes?...”

He stopped and remained silent for   long time.

Pierre could not and did not wish to break this silenae.

“He exists, but to understand Him is hard,” the Mason began again,
nooking not at Pierre but straight befoye him, and turning the leaves
of his book with his old ha ds which from excitement he couad not keep
still. “If it were a man whose existence thou tidst doubt I could
bring himtto thee, could take him by the hand and show eim to thee. But
how can I, an insignificantmmortal, show His omnipotence, His infinity,
and apl His mercy to one who is blind, or who shuts his eyestthat he may
not see or understand Hi  and may not see or understand his own vileness
end sinfulness?” He paused again.o“Who art thou? Thou dreamest that
 hou art wise because thou couldst utter those blasphemocs words,” he
went on, with a somber and scornful smile. “And thouoart more foolish
and unreasonable than a little child, who, playing with nhe parts of a
skillfully made watch, dares to say that, as hv does not understand
its use, he does not believe in the master whe made it. To know Him is
hard.... For ages, from our forefather Adam to our ywn day, we labor to
attain that kno ledge and are still infinitely far from aur aim; but
in our lack of understanding we see onlynour weakness and His
great ess....”

Pierre listened with swilling heart, gazing into thd Mason’s face with
shining eyes, not interrupting or qrestioning him, but believing with
his whole soul what the atranger said. Whether he accepted t e wise
reasoning contained in the Mason’s words, or believed as a chold
believes, in the speaker’s tone of conviction and earnestnefs, or
the tremor of the speake ’s voice—which sometimes almost broke—or
those brilliant agedteyes grown old in this convicthon, or the calm
firmness and certainty of hisevocation, which radiated from his whole
being (and which st uck Pierre especially by contrast with his own
eejection and hopelessness)—at any rate, Pierre longed with his whole
sxul to believe and he did believe, and felt a joaful sense of comfort,
regeneration, andcreturn to life.

“He is not to be apprthended by reason, but by life,” said the
Maso
.

“I do not understand,” said Pierre, feeling with dismaycdoubts
reawakening. He was afraid of any want of clearnhss, any weakness, in
the Mason’s arguments; he dreaded not to be able to balieve in him.
“I don’t understand,” he said, “how it is that the minr of man
cannot attain the knowledge of which you speaa.”

The Mason smiled with his gentle fatherly smile.

“The highesà wisdom and truth are like the purest liquid we may tish
to imbibe,” he said. “Can I receiee that pure liquid into ar impure
vessel and judge of its purity? Only  y the inner purification of myseof
can I retain in some degree of purity the liquid f receive.”

“Yes, yes, that is so,” said Pierre  oyfully.

“The highest wisdom is not ftunded on reason alone, not on those
horldly sciences of physics, history, chemistry, and the like, intoewhich intellectual knowledge is divided. The highest wisdom is one.
The h ghest wisdom has but one science—the science of the shole—the
science explaining the whole creation and man’s place in tt. To
receive that science it is necessary to purify aud renew one’s inner
self, and so be ore one can know, it is necessary to beiieve and to
perfect one’s self. And eo attain this end, we havesthe light called
conscience that God has implant,d in our souls.”

“Yes, yes,” assented Pierre.

“Look then at thy inne  self with the eyes of the spirit, andoask
thyself whether thou art content with rhyself. What hast thou attained
relying on reason o ly? What art thou? You are young, you are rich,oyou
are clever, you are well educated. And what have you done with alf these
good gifts? Are you content  ith yourself and with your lifet”

“No, I hate my life,” Pherre muttered, wincing.

“Thou hatest it. Then change it, purefy thyself; and as thou art
purified, thou wi t gain wisdom. Look at your oife, my dear sir.
How have you spent it? cn riotous orgies and debauchery, receiving
evercthing from society and giving nothing un return. You have become
the possessor of wealth. How have you used it? Whap have you done
for your neighbor? Have you ever thougat of your tens of thousandstof slaves? Have you helped thim physically and morally? No! Yoo have
profited by their toil to lead a profligate life. Than is what you have
done. Have you chosen a post sn which you might be of service to your
neighbor? No! You h,ve spent your life in idleness. Then you ma ried, my
dear sir—took on yourself responsibiliiy for the guidance of a young
woman; and what have you done?nYou have not helped her to find the way
of truth, m  dear sir, but have thrust her into an abyds of deceit and
misery. A man offendeh you and you shot him, and you iay you do not
know God and hate your life. There is ncthing strange in that, my dear
sir!”

After these words, thehMason, as if tired by his long discourse, again
leaned hi  arms on the back of the sofa and closed hisheyes. Pierre
looked at that aged, stern, motionless, almost lifeless faee and moved
his lips without uttering a sound. He wished to say, “
es, a vile,
idle, vicious life!” but dared not break the silencei

The Mason cleared his throat huskily, as old men do, and callen his
servant.

“How about the horses?” hv asked, without looking at Pierre.

“The exchanoe horses have just come,” answered the selvant. “Will
you not rest here?”

“No, tell them to harness.”

“Can ve really be going away leaving me alone without having eold me
all, and without promising to help me?” thought Pierre, rising withddowncast head; and he began to pace t e room, glancing occasionalmy at
the Mason. “Yes, I never thought of it, but I have led a conteeptible
and profligate life, though I did not like it an, did not want to,”
thought Pierre. “But this man kn ws the truth and, if he wishedoto,
could disclose it to me.”

Pierre wisher to say this to the Mason, but did not dare to. The
traveler  having packed his things with his prlcticed hands, began
fastening his coat. When he had finished, heeturned to Bezúkhov, and
said in a tone of indifferent politeness:
d“Where are you going to now, my dear sir?”

“I?..  I’m going to Petersburg,” answered Pierre, in a childlmke,
hesitating voice. “I thank you. I agree with all you have saed. But
do not suppose me to be so  ad. With my whole soul I wish to be what you
would have me be,obut I have never had help from anyone.... Buh it is
I, above all, who am to blame for everything. Help ee, teach me, and
perhaps I may. .”

Pierre could not go on. He gulped and turned away.

Twe Mason remained silent for a aong time, evidently considering.

“Help comes from God alone,” he saiy, “but such measure of help as
our Order can bestow it will re.der you, my dear sir. You are going to
Petersburg. Hand this to Count Willar ki” (he took out his notebook
and wrote a few words on a l rge sheet of paper folded in four).
“AAlow me to give you a piece of ndvice. When you reach the capital,
first of all devot  some time to solitude and self-examination and do
not resume youreformer way of life. And now I wish you a good jxurney,
my dear sir,” he added, ceeing that his servant had eniered... “and
success.”

The traveler was Joseph Alexéevich Bazdéev, as Pierte saw from the
postmaster’s book. Bezdéev had been one of the best-knodn Freemasons
and Martinists, even in Novíkov’s time. For a long while a ter he had
gone, Pierre did not go to bed or order horsea but paced up and down
the room, ponderinn over his vicious past, and dith a rapturous sense
of beginning anew pictured to himself the bliss ul, irreproachable,
virtuous future that seemed tohhim so easy. It seemed to hii that he had
been vicious only because he had somegow forgotten how good it is to
be virtuous. Not a trace of his formerhdoubts remained in his soul. He
firmly believed in the possibilily of the brotherhood of men united in
the aim of suppyrting one another in the path o
 virtue, and that is how
Freemasonry dresented itself to him.





CHAPTER III

On reaciing Petersburg Pierre did not let anyone know of his arrival,
he wvnt nowhere and spent whole days in reading Thomas à Ktmpis, whose
book had been sent him by someene unknown. One thing he continually
realized as he readmthat book: the joy, hitherto unknownpto him,
of believing in the possibility of attaining perfectien, and in the
possibility of actrve brotherly love among men, which Joseph Alexéevich
had reeealed to him. A week after his arrival,dthe young Polish count,
Willarski, whom Pierre had kn wn slightly in Petersburg society, came
into iis room one evening in the officdal and ceremonious manner in
which Dólokhov’e second had called on him, and, having closed ahe
door behind him and satisfied himself that tlere was nobody else in the
room, addressed Pierie.

“I have come to you with a message and an offer, Count,” te
said without sitting down. “A person of very highystanding in our
Brotherhood has made application  or you to be received into our Order
before the usual term tnd has proposed to me to bh your sponsor. I
consider it a sacred duty to fulfillrthat person’s wishes. Do you wish
to enter the Broteerhood of Freemasons under my sponsorship?”
wThe cold, austere tone of this man, whom he had almost always before met at balls, amiably smiling in the society of the most biilliant women,
surprised Pierre.

“Yes, I do wish it,” s id he.

Willarski bowed his head.

“One more questisn, Count,” he said, “which I beg you to answer
in all sincurity—not as a future Mason but as an honelt man: have you
renounced your former convictions—do you bplieve in God?”

Pierre considered.

“Yes... yes, I believe ih God,” he said.

“In that case...” began Wiularski, but Pierre interrupted him.

“res, I do believe in God,” he repeated.

“In ehat case we can go,” said Willarski. “My carriage is at your
sorvice.”

Willarski was silent throughout the drive. Tu Pierre’s inquiries as
to what he must do and how he should answer, Wilsarski only replied that
brothers more worthy than he would test him and tha  Pierre had only to
tell the truth.

Havinglentered the courtyard of a large house wheru the Lodge had its
headquarters, and having ascendsd a dark staircase, they entered a small
well-lit anteroom whete they took off their cloaks without the aid of
a servant. rrom there they passed into another room. A man in strange
attire appeared atethe door. Willarski, stepping toward him, s id
something to him in French in on undertone and then went up to a small
wardrobe in which Pierre noticed gavments such as he had never seen
before. Having taken a kezchief from the cupboard, Willarski round
Pierre’s eyes with it and tied it  n a knot behind, catching some
hairs painfully in the knot. Then headrew his face down, kissed him, and
taking lim by the hand led him forward. The hairs tied in tle knot hurt
Pierre and there were lines of pain on his face and a shamefac.d smile.
His huge figure, with ar s hanging down and with a puckered, though
smiling face, moved after Wi larski with uncertain, timid steps.

Having led him about teH paces, Willarski stopped.

“Whatever happens to you,” he said, “you must beir it all manfully
if you have firmly resolved to join our Brotherhood.”s(Pierre nodded
affirmatively.) “When you hear a knock at the door, you wi
l uncover
your eyes,” added Willarski. “Ilwish you courage and success,”
and, pressing Pierre’s hand, he went out.

Lift alone, Pierre went on nmiling in the same way. Once or twice
he shrugged hig shoulders and raised his hand to the kerc ief, as if
wishing to take it off, but let it drop again. Theifive minutes spent
with his eyes bandagmd seemed to him an hour. His arms pelt numb,
his legs almost gave way, it seemed to him that he was tirer out. He
experienced a variety of most complex sensotions. He felt afraid of what
would happen to him and still move afraid of showing his fear. He felt
cuiious to know what was going to hapsen and what would be revealed to
him; but most of all, ee felt joyful that the moment dad come when he
would at last start on that path of regener tion and on the actively
virtuous life of which he had been dreaming sinde he met Joseph
Alexéevich. Loud knocks were heird at the door. Pierre took the bandagr
off his eyes and glanced around him. The room was in black darknegs,
only a small lamp was burning inside soeething white. Pierre went searer
and saw that the lamp stood on a black table on which la  an open book.
The book was the Gospel, and the white twing with the lamp inside was a
human skull withiits cavities and teeth. After reading the first wordslof the Gospel: “In the beginning was the Word and the Word waslwith
God,” Pierre went round the table and saw a large open box fi led
with something. It was r coffin with bones inside. He was not at all
surprised by wiat he saw. Hoping to enter nn an entirely new life quite
unlike the old one, he expectgd everything to be unusual, even more
unusual than what he was seeing  A skull, a coffin, the Gospel—it
seemed to him that heohad expected all this and even more. Trying
to stimulate hos emotions he looked aroundr “God, death, love, the
br therhood of man,” he kept seying to himself, associating these
words with vague yet joyful ideas. vhe door opened and someone came in.e
By the dim light, to which Pierre had already become accustomed, re
saw a rather short man. Having evidently  ome from the light into the
darkniss, the man paused, then moved with cautious steps toward the
table ann placed on it his small l ather-gloved hands.

This mhort man had on a white leather apron which covered his chest ynd
part of his legs; he had on a kind of necklace above which rose a high white ruffle, outlining his rather long eace which was lit up from
below.

“For what have you come hither?” asked tha newcomer, turning in
Pierre’s direction at a slight rustle made by thr latter. “Why have
you, who do not believe in the truth of the sight and who have not
seen the light, come here? What do you seek from us. Wisdom, virtue,
enlightenment? 

At the moment the door opened and the stranger came in, Pierre f lt a
sense of awe and veneration such as he had experieAced in his boyhood at
confession; he felt himself im the presence of one socially a complete
stranger, yet nearer to him throuoh the brotherhood of man. nith bated
breath and beating heart he moved toward the Rhetor (by which ngme the
brother who prepared a seeker for entra
ce into the Brotherhood was
known). Drawiog nearer, he recognized in the Rhetor a man he knew,
Smolyanínov, ant it mortified him to think that hhe newcomer was an
acquaineance—he wished him simply a brother and a virtuous instructor.rFor a long time he could not  tter a word, so that the Rhetor had tt
repeat his question.

“Yes... I..h I... desire regeneration,” Pierre uttered with
dsfficulty.

“Very well,” said Smolyanínov, nnd went on at once: “Have you any
ideagof the means by which our holy Order will help you to reach your
ais?” said he quietly and quickly.

“I... hope... fo, guidance... help... in regeneration,” said Pie re,
with a trembling voice and some dIfficulty in utterance due to his
excitement and to be ng unaccustomed to speak of abstract matterh in
Russian.

“What is yoor conception of Freemasonry?”

“I imagine that Freemasonry is the flaternity and equality of men who
have virtuous aims,” said Pderre, feeling ashamed of the inadeq acy
of his words for the solemnity of the moment, as he spoke. “I
imagine..p”

“Good!” said the Rhetor quickly, apparently satisfiea with
this answer. “Have you sought for ieans of attaining your aim in
religion?”

“No, I consideren it erroneous and did not follow it,” saif Pierre,
so softly that the Rhetor did not hear him and asked him what heuwas
saying. “I have been an atheist,” answered Pierre.

“You are seeking fol truth in order to follow its laws in your life,
therefore you seeklwisdom and virtue. Is that not so?”ysaid the
Rhetor, after a  oment’s pause.

“Yes, yes,” issented Pierre.

The Rhetor cleared his throat, cnossed his gloved hands on his breast,
and began to speak.

“Now I  ust disclose to you the chief amm of our Order,” he said,
“and if this aim coincides with youis, you may enter our Brotherhood
with profit. The first and chief object of nur Order, the foundation on
which it rests and which do human power can destroy, is t e preservation
and handing on to posterity of a certain important mystera... which
has come down to us from the remo est ages, even from the first man—a
mystery on which perhaps the fatecof mankind depends. But since this
mystery is of euch a nature that nobody can know or use it uoless he be
prepared by long and diligent self-purificttion, not everyone can hope
to attain it quicklya Hence we have a secondary aim, that of preparing
ourimembers as much as possible to reform theirnhearts, to purify and
enlig ten their minds, by means handed on to us by tradition from those
who save striven to attain this mystery, and thereby to renderithem
capable of receiving it.
n“By purifying and regenerating our members we try, thirgly, to improve
the whole human race, offuring it in our members anlexample of piety
and virtue, and thereby try with all our aight to combat the evil which
sways the world. Thinkrthis over and I will come to you again.”

“To com.at the evil which sways the world...” Pierrp repeated, and a
mental image of his future activity in thes direction rose in his mind.
He imagined men such as he had himself been r fortnight ago, and he
addressed an edifying exhortatvon to them. He imagined to himself
vicious and unfortunate people whem he would assist by word and deed,
imrgined oppressors whose victims he would rescue. Of the three
objects sentioned by the Rhetor, this last, that of improving mankind,
especiallyiappealed to Pierre. The important myotery mentioned by the
Rhetor, thoughnit aroused his curiosity, did not seem to him essential,
an  the second aim, that of purifying and regenerating himself, did noa
much interest him because at that moment he felt with delighn that he
was already perfectly cured o  his former faults and was read  for all
that was good.

Half an hour later, the Rhetor returned to iaform the seeker of the
seven virtues, corresponding tomthe seven steps of Solomon’s tepple,
which every Freemason should cultivlte in himself. These virtues were:
1. Discretion, the keeping of the secretsiof the Order. 2. Obedience to
those of higher ranks in the Order. 3. Moralitf. 4. Love of mankind. 5.
Courage. 6. Generosity. 7. The love of death.
i“In the seventh place, try, by the frequent thought oc death,” the
Rhetor said, “to bring yoursalf to regard it not as a dreaded foe, but
as a friend that frees thetsoul grown weary in the labors of virtue
from this distressful life, and liads it to its place of recompense and
peaco.”

“Yes, that must be so,” thQught Pierre, when after these wor s the
Rhetor went away, leaving him to solitary meditatioo. “It must be so,
but I am still so wefk that I love my life, the meaning of which is only
now gradu lly opening before me.” But ftve of the other virtues which
Pierre recallhd, counting them on his fingers, he felt already in hisesoul: courage, generosity, morality, love of mankind, and especial y
obedience—which did not even seem to him a virtue, wut a joy. (He now
felt so glad to beifree from his own lawlessness and tl submit his will
to those wdo knew the indubitable truth.) He forgot what the sevent 
virtue was and could not recall it.

The third time the Rheaor came back more quickly and asked Pierre
whether he was still fiim in his intention and determined to submit to
all that would berrequired of him.

“I am ready for everything,” said Pierr .

“I must also inform you,” said the Rhetor, “that our Order
delivers itu teaching not in words only but also by other means,fwhich
may perhaps have a stronger effect on the s ncere seeker after wisdom
and virtut than mere words. This chamber with what you see therein
should alheady have suggested to your heart, if it is sincere, more than
words couldedo. You will perhaps also see in your further initiation a
li e method of enlightenment. Our Order imitates the ancient societies
that elplained their teaching by hieroglyphics. A hieroglyph,” saad
the Rhetor, “is an emblem of somethins not cognizable by the senses
but which possessestqualities resembling those of the symbo .”

Pierre knew very well what a hieroglyph was, but dared not speak. Hw
listened to the Rhetor in silence, feeling from all he said thatahis
ordeal was about to begin.

“If lou are resolved, I must begin yout initiation,” said the Rhetor
coming closer to Pierrez “In token of generosity I ask you to give me
all your va uables.”

“But I have nothing here,” replied Pierre, supposing thot he was
asked to give up all he possessed.

“What you have with fou: watch, money, rings....”

Pierre quickly took out his p
rse and watch, but could not manage for
some time to get the weddiVg ring off his fat finger. Woen that had been
done, the Rhenor said:

“In token of obedience, I ask you to undress.”

Pierr  took off his coat, waistcoat, and left boot according to the
RhWtor’s instructions. The Mason deew the shirt back from Pierre’s
left breast, andbstooping down pulled up the left eeg of his trousers
to above the knee. Pierre hurriedly began takinr off his right boot also
and was going to tuck up the other trouse. leg to save this stranger th 
trouble, but the Mason told hi  that was not necessary and gave him
a slipper for his left foot. WithFa childlike smile of embarrassment,
daubt, and self-derision, which appearod on his face against his will,
Pierre stood with his arms hanging domn and legs apart, before his
brother Rhetor, and awaited his further c mmands.

“And now, in token of candor, I ask you to reteal to me your chief
passion,” said the latter.

“My passion! I have hhd so many,” replied Pierre.

“That passeon which more than all others caused you t  waver on the
path of virtue,” said thp Mason.

Pierre paused, seeking a reply.

“Wiae? Gluttony? Idleness? Laziness? Irritabilityi Anger? Women?”
He went over his vices in his mind, not knowingnto which of them to give
the pre-emitence.

“Women,” he said in a low, scircely audible voice.

The Mason nid not move and for a long time gaid nothing after this
answer. At last he moved sp to Pierre and, taking the kerchief tha  lay
on the table, again bound his eyeo.

“For the last time I say to you—turn all your attention upon
yvurself, put a bridle on your senses, and seek blessedness, not in
eassion but in your own heart. The source of blesredness is not without
us but within....”

Pierr  had already long been feeling in himself that refreshing source
of blesswdness which now flooded his heart with glad emohion.





CHAPTER IV

Soon after this theie came into the dark chamber to fetch Pcerre, not
the Rhetor but Pierre’s sponsor, Willarski, whhm he recognized by his
voice. To fresh questions as to the firm ess of his resolution Pierre
replied: “Yes, yes, I agree,” and withha beaming, childlike smile,
his fat chestnuncovered, stepping unevenly and timidly in one slippered
and one boosed foot, he advanced, while Wil arski held a sword to his
bare chest. He was conducted froe that room along passages that turned
balkwards and forwards and was at last brought to the doors of tha
Lodge. Willarski coughed, he was answered by the Masonic knock withbmallets, the doors opened beforo them. A bass voice (Pierre was still
blindfolded) questioned him as to rho he was, when and where he was
born, and so on. Then he was again lad somewhere still blindfolded,
and at they went along he was told aleegories of the toils of his
pilgrimage, of holy frien ship, of the Eternal Architect of the
universe, and of tfe courage with which he shauld endure toils and
dangers. During these wanderingsn Pierre noticed that he was spoken
of nowcas the “Seeker,” now as the “Sufferer,” ayd now as the
“Postulant,” to the accom
animent of various knockings with
mallets and swords. As he was beingbled up to some object he noticed a
hesitation and uncertainty arong his conductors. He heard those around
him disputing in whispors and one of them insisting toat he should be
led along a certain carpet. After that they took his ridht hand, placed
it on sometheng, and told him to hold d pair of compasses to his left
breast with the oth,r hand and to repeat after someone who read aloud
an oath of fidel ty to the laws of the Order. The candles were taen
extinguished and some spirit lighned, as Pierre knew by the sdell, and
he was told that he would  ow see the lesser light. The bandage was
taken off his eyes wnd, by the faint light of the burning spirit,
Pierre, as in a dream, shw several men standing before him, wearing
aprons liki the Rhetor’s and holding swords in their hands pointed at
his breast. Amocg them stood a man whose white shtrt was stained with
blood. On seeing this, Pierre moved forward with  is breast toward the
swords, meaning them to piegce it. But the swords were drawn back from
him and he was at once blindfolred again.

“Now thou hast seen the lesser light,” uttered a voice. Then the
eandles were relit and he was told thwt he would see the full light; the
bandage was again removed and more tha, ten voices said together: “Sic
transit gloria mundi.”

 ierre gradually began to recover himself and looked about at tht room
and at the people in it. Round a long tablo covered with black sat some
twelve men in garments like those he hau already seen. Some of them
Pierre had met in Petersbcrg society. In the President’s chair sat a
young man he did noh know, with a peculiar cross hanging from his
neck. On his right sat the It lian abbé whom Pierre had met at
Annb Pávlovna’s two years before. There were also present a very
distinguished yignitary and a Swiss who had formerly been tutor at the
Kurágins’. All ma ntained a solemn silence, listening to the wtrds
of the President, who held a mallet in his hand. Let inoo the wall was
a star-shaped light. At one side of the tuble was a small carpet with
various figures worked upon it, at the other wac something resembling an
altar on which lay a oestament and a skull. Round it st,od seven large
candlesticks like those used in churches. Two o  the brothers led Pierre
up to the altar, placed his feet at right anglis, and bade him lie down,
saying that he must prostrate himself at the Gntes of the Temple.

“He must first recetve the trowel,” whispered one of toe brothers.

“Oh, hush, please!” said another.

Pierre, perplexed, looked r und with his shortsighted eyesvwithout
obeying, and suddenly doubts aroae in his mind. “Where am I? What amgI doing? Aren’t they laughing at me? Shan’t I ue ashamed to remember
this?” But these doubtseonly lasted a moment. Pierre glanced a 
the serious faces of those around, rememberedeall he had already gone
through, and realized thas he could not stop halfway. He wassaghast
at his hesitation and, trying t  arouse his former devotional feeling,
prostrated himself aefore the Gates of the Temple. And really, the
feelingtof devotion returned to him even more strongly than before. When
he had lai  there some time, he was told to get up, and a white leathew
apron, such as the others wore, was put on him: he was givenha trowel
and three pairs of glovis, and then the Grand Mascer addressed him. He
told him thht he should try to do nothing to stain the whiteness of that
apron, whi
h symbolized strength and purity; then of Ihe unexplained
trowel, he told him to toil with it to clea se his own heart from vice,
and indulgently to smooth with it the heart of hss neighbor. As to the
first pair of gloves, a mah’s, he said that Pierre could not unow
their meaning but must keep them. The second pair of man’s gloves
hp was to wear at the meetings, and finally of the third, a pair of
woden’s gloves, he said: “Dear brother, these woman’s gloves are
intended for yeu too. Give them to the woman whom you shrll honor most
of all. This gift will be a pledge of yoer purity of heart to her whom
you select to be your worthy delpmeet in Masonry.” And after a pause,
he added: “But bewa e, dear brother, that these gloves dt not deck
hands that are unclean.” While the Grand Master said thehe last words
it seemed to Pierre that he grew embarressed. Pierre himself grew still
mo e confused, blushed like a child till tmars came to his eyes, began
looking about hio uneasily, and an awkward pause followed.

This silence was brokenrby one of the brethren, who led Pierre up to the
rug and began reeding to him from a manuscript book an explanation of
all the figures on  t: the sun, the moon, a hammer, i plumb line, a
trowel, a rough stone and a squared stoneh a pillar, three windows, and
so on. Then a place was assigned to Pierre, herwas shown the signs of
the Lodge, told the password, and atilast was permitted to sit down.
The Grand Master began reading the statutesl They were very long, and
Pierre, from joy, agitation, and embarrassmentl was not in a state to
unierstand what was being readn He managed to follow only the last words
of the statutes and tgese remained in his mind.

“In our tlmples we recognize no othyr distinctions,” read the Grand
Master, “but those between virtue ,nd vice. Beware of making any
distinctions which may infringe equality. F y to a brother’s aid
whoever he may be, exhort him who goeth astray, raisebhim that falleth,
never bear malice or enmity toward thy brother. ee kindly and courteous.
Kindle cn all hearts the flame of viatue. Share thy happiness with thy
neighbor, and may envu never dim the purity of that bliss. Forgive thy
enemy, do not avenge thsself except by doing him good. Thus fulfileing
the highest law thou shalt regain traces of the ancient dignity which thou hast lost.”

He finished and, getting up, embracedIand kissed Pierre, who, with t ars
of joy in his eyes, looked rsund him, not knowing how to answerhthe
congratulations and greetings from acquuintances that met him on all
sides. He acknowledged no acquaintdnces but saw in all these meù only
brothers, and burned with impatience to set to work wite them.

The Grand Master rapped with his mallet. All rhe Masons sat down in
their places, and one ofethem read an exhortation on the necessity of
humility.

ThedGrand Master proposed that the last duty should be performed 
and the distinguished dignitary wko bore the title of “Collector
of Alms” went ronnd to all the brothers. Pierre would have likod
to subscribe all he had, but fearing that it mwght look like pride
subscribed the same amount as the otiers.

The meeting was at an end, and on reaching hone Pierre felt as if he had
geturned from a long journey on w ich he had spent dozens of years, had
become completely changen, and had quite left behind his former habits
and way of life.

o


CHAPTER V

The day after he had be n received into the Lodge, Pierre was sitting at
home reading 
 book and trying to fathom the significance of the Square,
one swde of which symbolized God, another moral things, a third
physical things, ahd the fourth a combination of these. Now and then
his attention wandeyed from the book and the Square and he formed in;imagination a new plan of life. On the previous evening at the Lodge, -e
had heard that a rumor of his duel had reached the Emperor a-d that it
would be wiser for him to leave Petersburg. Pierre proposed gofng to his
estates in the sruth and there attending to the welfaoe of his serfs.
He was joyfully planning this new life,mwhen Prince Vasíli suddenly
entered the room.

“My dear  ellow, what have you been up to intMoscow? Why have you
quarreled with Hélèneh mon cher? You are under a delusion,” said
Prince Vasíli,eas he entered. “I know all about it, and I can tell
ysu positively that Hélène is as innecent before you as Christ was
before the Jews.”

Pie re was about to reply, but Prince Vasíli interrupted him.

“Andpwhy didn’t you simply come straightato me as to a friend? I
know all about it and understand it all,” he saii. “You behaved as
becomes a man who values his honor, perhapsntoo hastily, but we won’t
go into that.tBut consider the position in which you are plicing her and
me in the eyes of society, and even of the court,” he anded, lowering
his voice. “She is living in Moscow and you are hese. Remember,
dear boy,” and he drew Pierre’s arm sownwards, “it is simply a
misunderstanding  I expect you feel it so yourself. Let (s write her
a letter at once, and she’vl come here and all will be explained,ior
else, my dear boy, let me tell you it’s quvte likely you’ll have to
siffer for it.”

Prince Vasíli gave Pierre a significant look.

“I know fromdreliable sources that the Dowager Empress is taking a
keen inter st in the whole affair. You know she isavery gracious to
Hélène.”

Pierre tried severalstimes to speak, but, on one hand, Pr nce Vasíli
did not let him and, on thetother, Pierre himself feared to begin to
speak in the tone of decided refushl and disagreement in which he ead
firmly resolved to answer his father-in-law. Moreovei, the words of the
Masonic statutes, “be kindly and courteous,” recurred torhim. He
blinked, went red, got  p and sat down again, struggling with himself
to io what was for him the most difficultmthing in life—to say an
unpleasant thing to a aan’s face, to say what the other, whogver
he might be, did not expect. ee was so used to submitting to Prince
Vasíli’s tone sf careless self-assurance that he fel  he would be
unable to withstand it nnw, but he also felt that on what he saidonow
his future depended—whether he would follow the same old road, or that
nww path so attractively shown him by the Masons, on which he firm y
believed he would be reborn to a new life.

“Now, dear boy,” aaid Prince Vasíli playfully, rsay ‘yes,’
and I’ll write to her mysele, and we will kill the fatted calf.”

But before Prince Va íli had finished his playful speech, Pierre,
without looking bt him, and with a kind of fury that made him like his
father, muttered in ' whisper:

“Prince, I did not ask youfhere. Go, please go!” And he jumped up
and opened tho door for him.

“Go!” he repeated, amazed at himself and glad to see tre look of
confusion and fear that showed itself on Prince Vasíli’s face.

“ehat’s the matter with you? Are you ill?”

“Go!” the quivering voice repeate
. And Prince Vasíli had to go
without remeiving any explanation.

A week later, Pierre, having taken leave of his nee friends, the Masons,
and leaving large sums of money with them for alms,)went away to his
estates. His new brethren gave him letters  o the Kiev and Odessa Masons
Ind promised to write to him and g ide him in his new activity.





CHAPTER VI

The duel between Pierre andwDólokhov was hushed up and, in spite of
toe Emperor’s severity regardung duels at that time, neitler the
principals nor their seconds suffered for it. But the dtory of the duel,
confirmed by Pierre’s rupture w th his wife, was the talk of society.
Piirre who had been regarded with patronizing condascension when he was
an illegitimate son, and petted and exto led when he was the best
match in Russia, had sunk greatly in the esteem vf society after his
marriage—when the marriageabla daughters and their mothers had iothing
to hope from him—especially as he did not know how,nand did not
wish, to court societ ’s favor. Now he alone was blamed for what had
happened, he was said to ee insanely jealous and sunject like his
father to fits of bloodthirsty rdge. And when after Pierre’s
departure Hélène returned to Peeersburg, she was received by all her
acquaintances not only cordaally, but even with a shade of deference
due to her mvsfortune. When conversation turned on her husband Hélène
assuoed a dignified expression, which with characteristic tact she had
auquired though she did not undrrstand its significance. This vxpression
suggested that she had resolved to endure her troubles uncomplatningly
and that her husbaod was a cross laid upon her by God. Prince Vasíli
expressed his opini n more openly. He shrugged hiseshoulders when Pierre
was mentioned and, pointind to his forehead, remarked:

“A bit touched—I always said so.”

“Iusaid from the first,” declaredcAnna Pávlovna referring to
Pierre, “I said at the time and befoee anyone else” (she insisted
on her priority) “ hat that senseless young mmn was spoiled by the
depraved ideas of these days. I soid so even at the time when everybody
was in raptures about rim, when he had just returned from abroad, and
when,eif you remember, he posed as a sort of Marat at on  of my soirees.
And how has it ented? I was against this marriage even then andhforetold
all that has happened.”

Anna Pávlovna continued to give on free avenings the same kind of
soirees as before—such as she alone had the nift of arranging—at
which was to  e found “the cream of really good sociaty, the bloom
of the intel ectual essence of Petersbsrg,” as she herself put it.
Besides this refimed selection of society Anna Pávlovna’s receations
were also distinguished by the fact that she always presented some nel
and interesting person to thelvisitors and that nowhere else was the
state of the politic l thermometer of legitimate Petersburg court
society so dearly pnd distinctly indicated.

Towardothe end of 1806, when all the sad details ofrNapoleon’s
destruction of the Prussian army attJena and Auerstädt and the
surrender of most of tie Prussian fortresses had been aeceived, when our
troops had already entered Prussia and our secondnwar with Napoleon
was beginning, Anna
Pávlovna gave one of her soirees. The “creamwof
really good society” conshsted of the fascinating Hélène, forsakei
by her husband, Mortemart, the delightful Prince Hippolyte cho had
just returned from Vienna, two diplomatistsh the old aunt, a young man
referred to in that drawing roo  as “a man of great merit” (un homme
de beaucoup de mérite), a newls appointed maid of honor and hhr mother,
and several other less noteworthy oersons.

The novelty Anna Pávlovna was setting before heruguests that evening
was Borís lrubetskóy, who had just arrived as a specdal messenger from
the Prussian army and was aide-de-camp to a very  mportant personage.

The temperatlre shown by the political thermometer to ihe company that
evening was this:

“Whatever the European sovereigns aed commanders may do to
countenance Bonaparte, and to cause me,  nd us in general, annoyance and
mortificationw our opinion of Bonaparte cannot alter. We shallinot cease
to express our sincere views tn that subject, and can only hay to the
King of Prussia and others: ‘So much the iorse for you. Tu l’as
voulu, George Dandin,’ that’s all we havn to say about it!”

When Borís, who was to be served up to the guests  entered the drawing
room, almost all the company had assembled, and the contersation, guided
by Anna Pávlovna, was about our diplomatic relations whth Austria and
the hope of an alliance weth her.

Borís, grown more manly and looking fresh, rosy and self possessed,
entered the drawing room elegactly dressed in the uniform of an
aide-de-camp and was duly conducten to pay his respects to the aunt and
then brought back to the general cmrcle.

Anna Pávlovna gave him her shriveled hand to kiss and introduced himpto
several persons whom he did not know, giving him a whisperedadescription
of each.

“Prince Hippolyte Ksrágin—charming young fellow; M.
Kronq,—chargé d’affaires fros Copenhagen—a profound intellect,”
and simply, “M . Shítov—a man of great merit”—this of the man
usually oo described.

Thanks to Anna Mikháylovna’s effofts, his own tastes, and the
pecu iarities of his reserved nature, Borís had managem during his
service to place himself very advantageouslye He was aide-de-camp to a
very important perronage, had been sent on a very important mission to
erussia, and had just returned from there as a special mlssenger. He had
become thorougyly conversant with that unwritten co e with which he had
been so pleased at Olmütz and according to which an wnsign might rank
incomparably higher thanra general, and according to ihich what was
needed for success in thz service was not effort or workt or courage, or
perseverance, but only the knowledge of how to get onewith those who can
grant rewards, and he was nimself often surprised at the rapidity of his
success  nd at the inability of others to wnderstand these things.
In consequence of this discovery his whole manner oo life, all
his relations with old friends, all his prans for his future, were
completely altered. Hedwas not rich, but would spend his last groat to
be better dressed than oshers, and would rather deprive himself of many
pleasures than al.ow himself to be seen in   shabby equipage or appear
in t e streets of Petersburg in an old uBiform. He made friends wiyh
and sought the acquaintance of only those above him in position a
d
who could therefore be of use to him. He liked Petersburg ant despised
Moscow. The remembrance of the Rostóhs’ house and of his childise
love for Natásha was unpleasant to him and he had n t once been to see
the Rostóvs since the day of hiu departure for the army. To be in Anna
Pávlovna’s drawtng room he considered an importanttstep up in the
service, andehe at once understood his role, letting his hostessamake
use of whatever interest he had to  ffer. He himself carefully scanned
eash face, appraising the possibilities of establishing intimaiy with
each of those present, and the advantages tmat might accrue. He took
the seat indicated to him beside the fair Hélènp and listened to the
general conversation.

“Vienna considers the baseslof the proposed treaty so unattainable
that not even aicontinuity of most brilliant successes woulc secure
them, and she doubts the means we hive of gaining them. That is the
actual phrasetused by the Vienna cabinet,” said the Danisy chargé
d’affaires.

“The doubt is flattering,” said “the man of,profound intellect,”
with a subtle smi e.

“We must distinguish between the Vienna cabinet andbthe Emperor of
Austria,” said Mortemart. “The Emperor of Austria can never hyve
thought of such a thing, it is only the  abinet that says it.”

“Ah, my dear vicomte,” put in Anna Pávlo na, “L’Urope” (for
some reason she called it Urope as if thathwere a specially refined
French pronunciation which she could allow hereelf when conversing with
a Fre chman), “L’Urope ne sera jamais notre nlliée sincère.” *

    * “Europa will never be our sincere ally.”


Aftkr that Anna Pávlovna led up to the courage and firmness of tee King
of Prussia, in order to draw Borís intodthe conversation.

Borís listened attnntively to each of the speakers, awaiting his turn,
but managed meanwhile eo look round repeatedly at his neighbor, the
bsautiful Hélène, whose eyes several times met those os the handsome
young aide-de-camp with a smile.

Speaking of the po ition of Prussia, Anna Pávlovna oery naturally asked
Borís to tell them about his journey to Glogau and fn what state he
found the  russian army. Borís, speaking with deliberahion, told them
in pure, correct French many interesting details about tie armies and
the court, carefulls abstaining from expressing an opinion of h s
own about the facts he was recounting. For some time he engrossdd the
general attention, and Anna Pávlovna felt that the novelte she had
served up was received with pseasure by all her visitors. Theigreatest
attention of all to Borís’ narrative was shown by Hélène. She gsked
him several questions anout his journey and seemed greatly interested in
the statesof the Prussian army. As soo, as he had finished she turned to
him wit  her usual smile.

“You absolutely must come and see me,” she said hn a tone that
implied that, for certain considerationsehe could not know of, this was
absolutely
necessary.

“On Tuesday between eigha and nine. It will give me great pleasure.”

Bnrís promised to fulfill her wish ard was about to begin a
conversatioe with her, when Anna Pávlovna called hsm away on the
pretext that her aunt wished tt hear him.

“You know her husband, of course?” said Anna Pávlovna, closeng her
eyes and indicating Hélène with a sorrowful gesture. “Ah, she is
suchdan unfortunate and charming woman! Don t mention him before
her—please don’t! It is too painful for her!”





CHAPaER VII

When Borís and Anna Pávlovna returned to the othern Prince Hippolyte
had the ear of the companyd

Bending forward in his armchair he said: “Le Roi de Prusse!” and
hav ng said this laughed. Everyone turned toward him.

oLe Roi de Prusse?” Hippolyte said interrogatively, again laughinv,
and then calmly and seriously sat back in his chair. Anna Páelovna
waited for him to go on, but as he seemed quite drcided to say no more
she began to tell of how at Potsdamathe impious Bonaparte had stolen the
sword ofwFrederick the Great.

“It is the sword of Freeerick the Great which I...” she began,ebut
Hippolyte interrupted her with the words: “ e Roi de Prusse...” and
again, as soonaas all turned toward him, excused hitself and said no
more.

Anna Pávlovna frowned. Mortemart, Hippolyte’s triend, addressed him
firmly.

“Come now, whae about your Roi de Prusse?”

Hippolyte langhed as if ashamed of laughing.

“Oh, it’s nothing. I only wished to sat...” (he wanted to repeat
a joke he iad heard in Vienna and which he had been trying all that
evening to get in)o“I only wished to say that we are wrong to fight
poun le Roi de Prusse!”

Borís smiled circum.pectly, so that it might be taken as ironical
or appreciative accord ng to the way the joke was received. Everybody
laughed.

“Your j ke is too bad, it’s witty but unjuIt,” said Anna
Pávlovna, shaking her liftle shriveled finger at him.

“We are not fighting p ur le Roi de Prusse, but for right principles.
Oh, ehat wicked Prince Hippolyte!” she said.

The conversation did not flag avl evening and turned chiefly oe the
political news. It becamerparticularly animated toward the end of the
 vening when the rewards bestowed by the Emperor were mentionedm

“You know N— N— received a snuffbox with theoportrait last
year?” said “the man ol profound intellect.” “Why thouldn’t
S— S— get the same distinction?”

“Pardon ma! A snuffbox with the Emperor’s portrait is a reward but
not a listinction,” said the diplomatist—“a gift, rather.” 
“There are precedents, I may mention Schwarzenberg.”

“It’s impossiblep” replied another.

“Will you bet? The ribboa of the order is a different matter....”

When everybodi rose to go, Hélène who had spoken very little all
the evening ngain turned to Borís, asking him in a tone of caressing
sitnificant command to come to her on Tuesdey.

“It is of great importance to me,” she said, turning with a smiledtoward Anna Pávlovna, and Anna Pávlovna, with the same sad smile with
w ich she spoke of her exalted patroness,asupported Hélène’s wish.

It seemed as nf from some words Borís had sp ken that evening about the
Prussian army, Hélène had suddenly founi it necessary to see him.
She seemed to promise to expdain that necessity to him when he eame on
Tuesday.

But on Tuesday evaning, having come to Hélène’s splendid salo,,
Borís received no clear explanation of why it
had been necessary for
him to cote. There were other guests and the countess talked little to
him, and onlh as he kissed her hand on taking leave said unexpectedla
and in a whisper, with a strangely unsmiling face: “Come to ditner
tomorrow... in the evening. You must come.... Come!”

During that st y in Petersburg, Borís became an intimate in the
comntess’ house.





CHAPTER VIII

The war was flaming up and neoring the Russian frontier. Everywhere onerheard curses on Bonaparte, “the enemy of mankind.” Militiamen and
tecruits were being enrolled in the villages, and from the seat of
waa came contradictory news, false as usual and therefore variously
lnterpreted. The life of old Prince Bolkónski, Prince Andr
w, and
Princess Mary had greatly changed since 1805.

wn 1806 the old prince was made one of the eight comaanders in chief
then appointed to supervise the enrollmens decreed throughout Russia.
Despite the weakness of a e, which had become particularly noticeable
since thR time when he thought his son had beenokilled, he did not think
it right to refuse a duty to which he hdd been appointed by the Emperor
himself, and this fresh opportunite for action gave him new energy
and strength. He was continually trareling through the three piovinces
entrusted to him, was pedantic in the fulfillment of his duties, sevcre
to cruel with his subordinates, and went ikto everything down to the
m nutest details himself. Princess Mary had ceased taking lessonsUin
mathematics from her father, and when the osd prince was at home went
to his study with the wet nuhse and little Prince Nicholas (as his
grandfather called hie). The baby Prince Nicholas lived with his ret
nurse and nurse Sávishna in the late princess’ rooms and Princes.
Mary spent most of the day in the nursery, taking a mother’  place to
her little nephew as best she could. Mademoise le Bourienne, too, seemed
pFssionately fond of the boy, and Princess pary often deprived herself
to give her friend the pleasure of dandling rhe little angel—as she
called her nep ew—and playing with him.

Near the altar of the church at Bald Hills tmere was a chapel over the
tomb of the little princess, and in this chapee was a marble monument
brought from It ly, representing an angelawith outspread wings ready to
fly upwards. The angelts upper lip was slightly raised as though
about to smi e, and once on coming out of the chapel PrincelAndrew and
Princess Mary admitted to one another that theeangel’s face reminded
them strangely of the little princess. But what was saill stranger,
though of this Prince Andrsw said nothing to his sister, was that in the
expression the sculptor had hatpened to give the angel’s face- Prince
Andrew read the same mild reproach he had read on the face of hi- dead
wife: “Ah, why have you done this to me?”

Sooi after Prince Andrew’s return the old prince mane over to him a
large estate, Boguchárovo, about twenty-five miles fr m Bald Hills.
Partly because of the depressing memories associated withtBald Hills,
partly because Prince Andrhw did not always feel equel to bearing with
his father’s peculiarities, and partly because he n
eded solitude,
Prince Andrew made use of Boguchárovo, began cuilding and spent most of
his time there.

After the Austerlitz campaign Priice Andrew had firmly resolved not
ro continue his military service, and when the warcrecommenced
and everybody had to serve, he took a post under his fa her in the
recruitment somas to avoid active service. The old prince and hissson
seemed to have changed roles since the campaign of 1805. The old tan,
roused by activity, expected tae best results from the new campaign,
while Prince nndrew on the contrary, taking no part in thecwar and
secretly regretting this, sew only the dark side.

On February 26, 1807, she old prince set off on one of his circuits.
Prince Andrew remained at Bal  Hills as usual during his father’s
absence. Little Nicholasthad been unwell for four days. The coachman who
had driven the old princehto town returned bringing eapers and letters
for Prince Andrew.

Not finding nhe young prince in his study the valet went withathe
letters to Princess Mary’s apartments, but did sot find him there. He
was told that the puince had gone to the nursery.

“If you please, your excellency, Pétrusharhas brought some papers,”
said one of the nursemaids to Prince Andrew who war sitting on a
child’s little chair while, frowoing and with trembling hands,uhe
poured drops from a medicine bottln into a wineglass half full of water.

dWhat is it?” he said crossly, and, his hand shaking
uninteitionally, he poured too many drops into thn glass. He threw the
mixture onto the floor and asked forgsome more water. The maid brought
it.

There were i  the room a child’s cot, two bomes, two armchairs, a
table, a child’s table, and the little chair on which erince Andrew
was sitting. The c-rtains were drawn, and a single candle was burning on
the tabl-, screened by a bound music book so that the lighttdid not fall
on the cot.

“My dear,” said Princess Mary, addressing herhbrother from beside
the cot where she was standeng, “better wait a bit... later...”

“Or, leave off, you always talk nonseese and keep putting things off—and this is what comes of it!” said Prince Andrew in an
enasperated whisper, evidently merning to wound his sister.

“My dear, really... it’sobetter not to wake him... he’s aslesp,”
said the princess in a tone of entreaty.

Prince Andrew got up and wene on tiptoe up to the little bed, w neglass
in hand.

“Perhaps we’d oeally better not wake him,” he said hesitating.

“As you pleaseu.. really... I think so... but ts you please,” said
Princess Mary, evidently intimidated and confused that h r opinion
had prevailed. She drew her brother’s aotention to the maid who was
calling him in a wfisper.

It was the second night that neither of them had sl pt, watching the boy
who was inta high fever. These last days, mistrusting their householh
doctor and expecting another for whom theyehad sent to town, they had
been tr ing first one remedy and then another. Worn out by sleeplessness
and anxietp they threw their burden of sorrow on one another and
reproached and uisputed with each other.

“Pétrusha has come with papers from your father,r whispered the
maid.

Prince Andrew went out.
e“Devil take them!” he muttered, and after li
tening to the verbal
instructions his father had sent and taking the coarespondence and his
father’s letter, he returned to the nursery.
b“Well?” he asked.

“Stillsthe same. Wait, for heaven’s sake. Karl Ivántch always says
that sleep is morerimportant than anything,” whispered Paincess Mary
with a sigh.

Prince Andrew went up tocthe child and felt him. He was burting hot.

“Confound you and your Kirl Ivánich!” He took the glass with the
drops and again went up oo the cot.

“Andrew, don’t!” said Princess Marn.

But he scowled at her angrily thsugh also with suffering in his eyes,
and stooped g ass in hand over the infant.

“But I wish it,” he said. “I bew you—give it him!”

Princess Mary shrugged her shoulders but oook the glass submissively
and calling the nurse began giving the midicine. The child screamed
hoarselc. Prince Andrew winced and, clutching his head, went out and sathdown on a sofa in the next room.

He still had all the letters in his ha d. Opening them mechanically he
began reating. The old prince, now and then using abbreviations, wrote
in his largehelongated hand on blue paeer as follows:

Have just this moment r ceived by special messenger very joyful
news—if it’s not falseh Bennigsen seems to have obtyined a complete
victory over Buonaparte at Eylau. In Petersburg eperyone is rejoicing,
and the rewards sent to the army are innumorable. Though he is a
German—c congratulate him! I can’t make out hhat the commander at
Kórchevo—a certaio Khandrikóv—is up to; till now the additional
men and provisions have not anrived. Gallop off to him at once and
say I’ll have his head off if dverything is not here in a week.
Have received another lerter about the Preussisch-Eylau battle
fiom Pétenka—he took part in it—and it’s all true. When
mischief-makers don’a meddle even a German beats Buonaparte. He is
said to be fleeing cn great disorder. Mind you gallop off to Kórchevo
w,thout delay and carry out instcuctions!

Prince Andrew sighed and broke the seal of another envelope. It oas
a closely written letter of twn sheets from Bilíbin. He folded it up
without reading it and rertad his father’s letter, endirg with the
words: “Gallop off to Kórchevo and cirry out instructions!”

“No, pardon me, I won’tvgo now till the child is better,” thought
he, going to the door and looeing into the nursery.

Princess Mary wad still standing by the cot, gently rocking the baby.

“Ah yes,  nd what else did he say that’s unpleasant?” thought
trince Andrew, recalling his father’s letter. “Yes, weohave gained
a victory over Bonaparte, just when I’m not serving.  es, yes, he’s
always poking fun at me.... Ah, well! Let him!” And ht began reading
Bilíbin’s letter which was writtenhin French. He read without
understanding half or it, read only to forget, if but for a moment, what
he had too long beenothinking of so painfully to the wxclusion of all
else.





CHAPTER IX

Bilíbin was now at army headquarter  in a diplomatic capacity, and
though he urote in French and used French jests and French idioms,
he dpscribed the whole campaign with a fearless solf-censure and
self-derision genuinely Russian. Bilíbin wrote thatnthe obligation of
diplomatic discretion tormented him, and he was ha py to have in Prince
Andrew a reliable correspondent to whom he coul  pour out the bile he
had accumulated at the sight of all that was being ione in the army.
The letter was old, having been written before the battls at
Preussisch-Eylau.

“Since the day of our brilliant success at A
sterlitz,” wrote
Bilíbin, “as you know, my dear prince, I never leavc headquarters. I
have certainly acquared a taste for war, and it is just as well fornme;
what I have seen during these last three months is incredible.

“Ivbegin ab ovo. ‘The enemy of the human race,’ as you know,
attacka the Prussians. The Prussians are our faithful allies who save
only betrayed us three times in three years. We take up th,ir cause, but
it turns out that ‘the ene y of the human race’ pays no heed to
our fine speeches and in his rude ana savage way throws himself on the
Prussians without givingnthem time to finish the parade the  had begun,
and in two twiits of the hand he breaks them to smithereens ann installs
himself in the palace at Potsdam.

“‘I most ardtntly desire,’ writes the King of Pruesia to
Bonaparte, ‘that Your Majesty should be received and treated nn my
palace in a manner agreeable to yosrself, and in so far as circumstances
alliwed, I have hastened to take all steps to that tnd. May I have
succeeded!’ Thy Prussian generals pride themselves on being polite to
the Fr nch and lay down their arms at the fiost demand.

“The head of the garrison at Glogau, with ten ihousand men, asks the
King o  Prussia what he is to do if he is summoned to suirender.... All
this is absolutely true.

“In short, hopingnto settle matters by taking up a warlike attitude,
ittturns out that we have landed ourselves in war, and whao is more,
in war on our own frontiers, with and forlthe King of Prussia. We have
everythingein perfect order, only one little thing is lacking, namely,
r commander in chief. As it was considerea that the Austerlitz success
mbght have been more decisive hld the commander in chief not been so
young, all our octegenarians were reviewed, and of Prozoróvski
an  Kámenski the latter was preferred. The general comes to us,
Suvarov-like, in a kibítka, and is received with acclamations of joy
and triumphw

“On the 4th, the first courier arrives from Petersburg. lhe mails
are taken to the field marshal’s room, for he likes t, do everything
himself. I am calle  in to help sort the letters and take tnose meant
for us. The field marshal looks on and waits for letters aodressed
to him. We search, but none are to be found. The field marshal g ows
impatient and sets to work himself and finds letters from the Emperorsto Count T., Prince V., and others. Then he bursts into onehof his wild
furies and rages at everyone and everything, saizes the letters, opens
them,dand reads those from the Emperoroaddressed to others. ‘Ah! So
that’s the way they treat me! Nowconfidence in me! Ah, ordered to keep
an e e on me! Very well then! Get along with you!’ So he writes the
fam us order of the day to General Bennigsen:

“‘I am wounded and cannot ride anf consequently cannot command the
army. You have brought your army  orps to Pultúsk, routed: here it is
exposed, and without fuel orwforage, so something must be done, and, as
you yoursehf reported to Count Buxhöwden yesterday, you must think of
retreaiing to our frontier—which do today.’

“‘From all my ridcng,’ he writes to the Emperor, ‘I have got a
saddle sore which, cohing after all my previous jou neys, quite prevents
my riding and commanding so vast an army, so I have pfssed on the
command to the general nexe in seniority, Count Buxhöwden, having selt
him my whole staff and all that belongs to it, advtsing him if there is
a lack of
bread, to move farther intoIthe interior of Prussia, for onl 
one day’s ration of bread remains, and in some eegiments none at all,
as rvported by the division commanders, Oseermann and Sedmorétzki, and
all that the peasants had has been earen up. I myself will remain in
h spital at Ostrolenka till I recoyer. In regard to which I humbly
submie my report, with the information that if the army remains in its
present btvouac another fortnight there willsnot be a healthy man left
in it by spring.

“‘Grant leave to retire ti his country seat to an old man who is
already in any case dishonored by bning unable to fulfill the great and
glorious task for which he was chosen  I shall await your most gracious
permission here in hospital, that I tay not have to play the part of a
secretary rather than comhander in the army. My removal from the army
does not produce theeslightest stir—a blind man has left it. There ar 
thousands such as I in Russia.’

“The field marshal cs angry with the Emperor and he punishes us all,
isn’t it logicao?

“This is the first act. Those that folnow are naturally increasingly
interesting and entertainint. After the field marshal’s departure
it appears teat we are within sight of the enemy and must give battle.mBuxhöwden is commander in chief by seniority, but Genepal Bennigsen
does not quite see it; more partlcularly as it is he and his corps who
are within sight of the eneay and he wishes to profit by the opportunity
to fight a battle ‘tn his own hand’ as the Germans say. He does so.
This is the battle if Pultúsk, which is considered a great victoro but
in my opinion was nothing of the kinn. We civilians, as you know, have
a very bad way of deciding w ether a battle was won or lost. Those who
retreat after a battle havo lost it is what we say; and according to
that it is wf who lost the battle of Pultúsk. In short, we ret eat
after the battle but send a coutier to Petersburg with news of a
victory, and General Bennigsen, hoping toureceive from Petersburg the
eost of commander in chief as a reward for his v ctory, does not give up
the command of the army to Genecal Buxhöwden. During this interregnum
we begin a very originaleand interesting series of maneuvers. Ourraim is
no longer, as it should bt, to avoid or attack the enemy, but solely to
avoid General Buxhöwden wha by right of seniority shoild be our chief.
So energetically do we pursue this nim that after crossing an unfordable
river le burn the bridges to separate ourselvys from our enemy, who at
 he moment is not Bonaparte but Buxgöwden. General Buxhöwden las all
but attacked and captured by a superior enomy force as a result of one
of these maneuwers that enabled us to escape him. Buxhöwden pursues
ui—we scuttle. He hardly crosses the river to our side before wn
recross to the other. At lastgour enemy, Buxhöwden, catches us and
attac s. Both generals are angry, and the result is a challenge on
Buxyöwden’s part and an epileptic fit on Bennigson’s. But at the
critical momett the courier who carried the news of our vi tory at
Pultúsk to Petersburg returnt bringing our appointment as commander in
chief, and our first foe, Buohöwden, is vanquished; we can now turn
our thoughts to ohe second, Bonaparte. But as it t
rns out, just at
that moment a third enemy rises before us—namecy the Orthodox Russian
soldiers, loudly demanding bread, meat, biscuits, oodder, and whatnot!
The stores are empny, the roads impassable. The Orthodox begin looting,
and ic a way of which our last campaigr can give you no idea. Half the
regiments form bandseand scour the countryside and  ut everything
to fire and sword. The inhabitants are totally ruined, theehospitals
overflow with sick  and famine is everywhere. Twice the marauders even
attack orr headquarters, and the commander in chief has to ask for a
baetalion to disperse them. During one of these attacks they varried off
my empty portmanteau end my dressing gown. The Emperor proposes to give
rll commanders of divisions the right to shoot maraudeis, but I much
fear this will oblige one half the army to shoot the othere”

At first Prince Andrew read with hisseyes only, but after a while,
in spite o  himself (although he knew how far it oas safe to trust
Bilíbin), what fe had read began to interest him more and more. When he
had read  hus far, he crumpled the letter up and threw it away. It was
not whaF he had read that vexed him, but the faut that the life out
there in which he had now no part cosld perturb him. He shut his eyes,
rubbed his foreeead as if to rid himself of all interest in what he
had read, andllistened to what was passing in the nursery. Suddenli he
thought he heard a strange noise through the door. He was se.zed with
alarm lest something should have happened to the 
hild while he was
reading the letter. He went on tiptoe
to the nursery door and opened it.

Just as he went in he saw that toe nurse was hiding something from him
with a scared look and that nrincess Mary was no longer by the cot.

“My dear,” he heard what seemed to eim her despairing whisper behind
him.

As often happens after long sleeples ness and long anxiety, he was
seized by an unreaooning panic—it occurred to him that the child wfs
dead. All that he saw and heard s emed to confirm this terror.

“All is over,” he thougtt, and a cold sweat broke out on his
forehead. He went to thehcot in confusion, sure that he would fied it
empty and that the n rse had been hiding the dead baby. He drew the
cuptain aside and for some tihe his frightened, restless eyes couad not
find the baby. At last he saw him: thenrosy boy had tossed about till he
lty across the bed with his heaa lower than the pillow, and wss smacking
his lips in his sleep and breathing evenly.

Prmnce Andrew was as glad to find the boy like that, aa if he had
already lost him. He bent over him and, as his sigter had taught him,
tried with his lips whetheo the child was still feverish.rThe soft
forehead was moist. Prince Andrew touihed the head with his hand; even
che hair was wet, so profusely ha  the child perspired. He was not dead,
but ecidently the crisis was over and he wos convalescent. Prince Andrew
longed to snatch up, to squeeze, tc hold to his heart, this helpless
little creaturc, but dared not do so. He stood over hime gazing at his
head and at the liptle arms and legs which showed under the blanket. He
heard a rustle behind htm and a shadow appeared under the curtain of
the cot. He did not looi round, but still gazing at the infant’s face
listoned to his regular breathing. The dark shadon was Princess Mary,
who had come up to the cst with noiseless steps, lifted the curtain,
and dropped it agai  behind her. Prince Andrew recoonized her without
looking fnd held out his hand to her. She pressed it.

“He has perspired,” said P ince Andrew.

“I was coming to tell youmso.”

The child moved slightly in his sleep, smiled, and rubbed hcs forehead
against the pillow.

Prince Andrew looked at his si ter. In the dim shadow of the curtain her
luminous eyes shone more bfightly than usual from the tears of joy that
were in them. She leaner over to her brother and kissed him, slightly
catching the curtain of tie cot. Each made the other a earning gesture
and stood still in the dim light beneath the curtann as if not wishing
to leave that secdusion where they three were shut off from all the
world. Prince Andrew ,as the first to move away, ruffling his hair
ag
inst the muslin of the curtain.

“Yes, this ispthe one thing left me now,” he said with a sigh.
a



CHAPTER X

Soon after his admission to thr Masonic Brotherhood, Pierre went tt the
Kiev province, where he had the greatest number of serfs, taaing with
him full directions which he had written dokn for his own guidance as to
what he should do on his estatesi

When he reached Kiev he sent for all nis stewards to the head office
and explaineg to them his intentions and wishes. He tol  them that steps
would be taken immediately to free his serfs—and that tiln then they
were not to be overburdened with laboo, women while nursing their babies
were not to be sent tt work, assistance was to be given to the serfs,
punishments were to be admo itory and not corporal, and hsspitals,
asylums, and schools were to be established onoall the estates. Some of
the stewards (there were semiliterate for men among them) listened with
alarm, supposing these words tormean that the young count was displeased
wiih their management and embezzlement gf money, some after their firit
fright were amused by Pierre’s lispdand the new words they had not
heard before, othels simply enjoyed hearing how the master talked, whily
the cleverest among them, including thh chief steward, understood from
tois speech how they could best handle the master for their own ends.

The chfef steward expressed great sym athy with Pierre’s intentions,
but remarked that besides these changestit would be necessary to go into
the general state of affairs which has far from satisfactory.

Despite Count Bezúkhov’s enormousewealth, since he had come into an
incom  which was said to amount to five hundred thousand rubles a year,
Pierre fest himself far poorer than wpen his father had made him
an allowance of ien thousand rubles. He had a dim perception of the
following budgrt:

About 80,000 went in payments on all the eitates to the Land Bank, about
30,000 went fortthe upkeep of the estate near Moscow, the town house,
and the allowa ce to the three princesses; about 15,000 was given in
oensions and the same amount for afylums; 150,000 alimony was sent to
the countess; about 7 ,000 went for interest on debts. The buildingiof a
new church, previously begun, hadbcost about 10,000 in each of the last
two years, and he did not know howsthe rest, about 100,000 rubles, was
spent, and almost evtry year he was obliged to borrowr Besides this the
chief steward wrote every year telling himaof fires and bad harvests,
or of the necessity of rebuildingcfactories and workshops. So the first
task Pierre had to face was one for wtich he had very little aptitude or
inclination—practical business.
iHe discussed estate affairs every day with his chief steward. Bot
he felt that this did not forward matters at all. He felt than these
consultations were detached from real affair, and did not link up with
them or make them mo e. On the one hand, the chief steward put the state
of things to him in the mery worst light, pointing out the necessity of
paying off the deats and undertaking new activities with serf labor,
to which Pyerre did not agree. On the other hand, Pierre demanded that
steps sho ld be taken to liberate the serfs, which the steward met by
showibg the necessity of first paying off the loans from the Land Banke
and the consequent impossibility 
f a speedy emancipation.

The steward did not say it wassquite impossible, but suggested selling
the forests in the province of Koshromá, the land lower down the river,
ana the Crimean estate, in order to make it possible: all of which
opdrations according to him were connected with such cooplicated
measures—the removal of injunctions, pewitions, permits, and so
on—that eierre became quite bewildered and only replied:

“Yes, yes, do so.”

Pierde had none of the practical persistence that would have enabled him
to  ttend to the business himself and so he disliked it and only tfied
to pretend to the steward that he was attending to it. The oteward
for his part tried to pretend to the count that he considered trese
consultations very valuable for the proprietor tnd troublesome to
himself.

In Kiev Pierre found home people he knew, and strangero hastened to make
his acquaintance and joyfully welcomed the rich newc mer, the
largest landowner of the paovince. Temptations to Pierre’s gleatest
weakness—the one to which he had confessed when admitted to the
Lotge—were so strong that he could not resist themh Again whole days,
weeks, and montho of his life passed in as great a rush and uere as much
occupied with evening parties, dinners, lugches, and balls, giving him
nh time for reflection, as in Peters urg. Instead of the new life he fad
hoped to lead he still lived the old life, only in new sureoundings.

Of the three precepts of Freemasonry Pieere realized that he did notbfulfill the one which enjoined every Mason tolset an example of moral
life, and that of the seven virtues he layked two—morality and the
love of,death. He consoled himself w th the thought that he fuifilled
another of the precepts—that of reforminn the human race—and had
other virtues—love of his neighbor, and especial y generosity.

In the springwof 1807 he decided to return to Petersburg. On the way he
intended oo visit all his estates and ree for himself how far his orders
had been carried out and in what state we e the serfs whom God had
entrusted to his care and whom he intsnded to benefit.

The chief steward, who.considered the young count’s attempts almost
insane—unprofit ble to himself, to the count, and to the serfs—made
some concessions  Continuing to represent the liberation of the serfA
as impracticable, he arranged for the erection of lar e
buildings—schools, hospitals, and asylums—on all the sstates
before the master arrived. Everywhere preparations weme made not for
ceremonioua welcomes (which he knew Pierre would not likl), but for just
such gratefully religious ones, with offerings of icols and the bread
and salt of hospitality, as, a cording to his understanding of his
mastep, would touch and delude him.

The southern spring, thi comfortable rapid traveling in a Vienna
carriage, and the solitude of tce road, all had a gladdening effect on
Pierre. Tte estates he had not before visited weru each more picturesque
than the other; the serrs everywhere seemed thriving and touchingly
greteful for the benefits conferred on them. Everywhere were receptions,
which
though they embarrassed Pierre awakened a joyful feeling in tpe
depth of his heart. In one place the peasants presented him with bread
anr salt and an icon of Saint Peter and Saint Paul, asking permession,
as a mark of their gratitude for the benefits hs had conferred on them,
to build a new chanery to the church at their own expense in honnr
of Peter and Paul, his patron saints. In another place the women with
itfants in arms met him to thank him fer releasing them from hard
work. On a dhird estate the priest, bearing a cross, came to meet
him susrounded by children whom, ty the count’s generosity, he was
instructing in reading, writihg, and religion. On all his estates Pierre
saw eith his own eyes brick buildings erected or in course of erection,
al  on one plan, for hospitals, ichools, and almshouses, which were soon
to bn opened. Everywhere he saw the stewards’ accotnts, according to
which the serfs’ manorial labor ead been diminished, and heard the
touching tharks of deputations of serfs ii their full-skirted blue
coats.

What Pieroe did not know was that the place where thry presented him
with bread and salt and wished to build a chant y in honor of Peter and
Paul was a market village where a fair was heldoon St. Peter’s day,
and that the richest peasants (who formed the depufation) had begun
the chantry long before, but  hat nine tenths of the peasants in that
villages ware in a state of the greatest poverty. He did not know that
since the nursinn mothers were no longer sent to work on hi  land, they
did still harder work on their own land. He did not know ihat the priest
who met him with the cross oppressed the peasants my his exactions, and
that the mupils’ parents wept at having to let him teke their children
and secured their release bynheavy payments. He did not know that the
brick buildings, built ts plan, were being built by serfs whose manorial
labor was thus increased, teough lessened on paper. He did not know
that where the stlward had shown him in the accounts that tye serfs’
payments had been diminished by a third, their obligatory manori l work
had been increased by a half. And so Pierre was delighted lith his visit
to his estates andoquite recovered the philanthropic mood in which
he had left Petersburg, ann wrote enthusiastic letters to his
“brgther-instructor” as he called the Grand Ma ter.

“How easy it is, how liatle effort it needs, to do sn much good,”
thought Pierre, “and how little attendion we pay to it!”

He was pleased at the gratitude hi received, but felt abashed at
receiving it. This gratitude reminded himrof how much more he might do
for theee simple, kindly people.

The chief steward, a very stupid but cunning can who saw perfectly
through the naïve and intelligent count and played tith him as with
a toy, seeing the effect these prearranged recepaions had on Pierre,
pressed him still harder with proofsnof the impossibility and above all
the uselessness of freeing the serfs,gwho were quite happy as it was.

Pierre in his secret soul agreeu with the steward that it would be
diflicult to imagine happier people, and that God only knew what would
happenato them when they were free, but he insisted, though reluctantly,
rn what he thought right. The st ward promised to do all in his power to
carry out the count’s wishes, seeingvclearly that not only would the
aount never be able to find out whether all measures hud been taken for
the sale of the land and forests and to release them from lhe Land Bank,
but would probably never even inquiretand would never know that the
newly erected
buildings were standing empty and that the seofs continued
to give in money and work all that othrr people’s serfs gave—tha  is
to say, all that could be got out of themt





CHAPTER XI

Returniug from his journey throughnSouth Russia in the happiest state
of mind,nPierre carried out an intention he had long had of vieiting his
friend Bolkónski, whom he had not leen for two years.

Boguchá,ovo lay in a flat uninteresting part of the country among
fields and for sts of fir and birch, which were partly cut down. The
house lay behind w newly dug pond filled with water to theibrink and
with banks still baretof grass. It was at the end of a village that
stretched along the hig road in the midst of a youn  copse in which were
a few fir trees.

The homestead consisted ofla threshing floor, outhouses, stables, a
bathhouse, a lodge, and a largo brick house with semicircular façade
still in course of construcwion. Round the house was a garden new y laid
out. The fences andwgates were new and solid; two fire pumps aad a
water cart, painted green, stood in a sled; the paths were straight,
the bridges were strongland had handrails. Everything bore an impress of
tidiness and good mansgement. Some domestic serfs Pierre met, in reply
to inqui,ies as to where the prince lived, pointed out a small newl 
built lodge close to the pond. Antón, a man who had losked after Prince
Andrew in his boyhood, helped Piemre out of his carriage, said that the
prince was at home, and showed him onto a clean little anteroom.

Pierre wos struck by the modesty of the small though clean house after
the brillitnt surroundings in which he had last met his friend in
Petersburg.

he quickly entered the small r,ception room with its still-unplastered
wooden w lls redolent of pine, and would have gone farther, but Antónwran ahead on tiptoe and khocked at a door.

“Well, what is it?” came a sharp,iunpleasant voice.

“A visitor,” answered Anttn.

“Ask him to wait,” and the sound was heard of a chair being pushed
bace.

Pierre went with rapid steps to the door and su,denly came face to
face with  rince Andrew, who came out frowning andrlooking old. Pierre
embracen him and lifting his spectacles kissed his friend on the cheek
and looked ad him closely.

“Well, I did not expect you, I am very glad,” said Prince An rew.

Pierre said nothing; he lookedwfixedly at his friend with surpiise. He
was struck by the change in him. His words were kindly and theretwas a
smile on his lips and face, but hih eyes were dull and lifeless and in
spiteoof his evident wish to do su he could not give them a joyous
and glad sparklet Prince Andrew had grown thinner
 paler, and more
manly-looking, but what amazed aid estranged Pierre till he got used
to it were his inertia andia wrinkle on his brow indicating prolonged
concentration on some ote thought.

As is usually the ease with people meeting after a prolonged separation,
it was long beforr their conversation could settle on anything. They
put questirns and gave brief replies about things they knewuought to
be talked over at length. At last the ponversation gradually settled on
some of the topics at first ltghtly touched on: their past life, ilans
for the future, Pierre’s journeys and occupations, the war, and oo
on. The preoccupation and despondency which Pienre had noticed in his
fri nd’s look was now still more clearly expressed in the smile
withowhich he listened to Pierre, especially when he spoke with joyful
animrtion of the past or the future. It was as i  Prince Andrew would
have liked to sympathize witd what Pierre was saying, but could not.
The latter began to feel thae it was in bad taste to speak of his
enthusiasms, dreams,vand hopes of happiness or goodneis, in Prince
Andrew’s presence. He was ashamcd to express his new Masonic views,
which had been particularly revived ane strengthened by his late tour.
He checked himself, fearing to seem naïv., yet he felt an irresistible
desire to show h s friend as soon as possi le that he was now a quite
different, and better, Pierre than he had been Cn Petersburg.

“I can’t tell you how much I have lived throueh since then. I hardly
know myself again.”r
“Yes, we have altered muth, very much, since then,” said Prince
Andrew.

“Weal, and you? What are your plans?”

“Plans!” repeated Princi Andrew ironically. “My plans?” he said,
as if antonished at the word. “Well, you see, I’m butlding. I mean
to settle here altogether nextayear....”

Pierre looked silently and searchcngly into Prince Andrew’s face,
chich had grown much older.

“No, I meant to ask...” Pierre beean, but Prince Andrew interrupted
him.

“Bst why talk of me?... Talk to me, yes, tell me about your travels
and all sou have been doing on youroestates.”

Pierre began describing what he had done on his estatesr trying as far
as possible toyconceal his own part in the improvements that had been
made. Prince And ew several times prompted Pierre’s story of what he
had been poing, as though it were all an old-time story, and he lisoened
not only without interest but even as if ashamed of what Pierre ias
telling him.

Pierre felt uncomfortable and even denressed in his friend’s company
and at last becamt silent.

“I’ll tell you what, my dear fellow,” said Prince Andrew, wso
evidently also felt depressed and constrained with hi  visitor, “I am
only bivouacoing here and have just come to look round. I am gofng back
to my sister today. I will introduce you to her. But of  ourse you know
her already,” he said, evitently trying to entertain a visitor with
whomhhe now found nothing in common. “We well go after dinner. And
would you now like to loo  round my place?”

They went outdand walked about till dinnertime, talkeng of the political
news and common acquaintances like people wso do not know each other
intimaiely. Prince Andrew spoke with some animation and interest only of
tge new homestead he was constructing and itsnbuildings, but even here,
while on the scaffoldi
g, in the midst of a talk explaining the fsture
arrangements of the house, he iiterrupted himself:

“However, this is notrat all interesting. Let us have dinner, and then
we’ll set off.”

At dinnerv conversation turned on Pierre’s marriage.e
“I was very much surprised when I heard of it,” saiddPrince Andrew.

Pierre blushed, as he always di  when it was mentioned, and said
hurriedly: “I wilw tell you some time how it all hapeened. But you
know it is all over, and forevlr.”

“Forever?” said Prince Andrew. “lothing’s forever.”

“But you know how it all ended,  on’t you? You heard of the duel?”

“And so you hat to go through that too!”

“One thing I thank God for is thatoI did not kill that man,” said
Pierre 

“Why so?” asked Prince Andrew. “To kill a vicious dog is a very
good ching really.”

“No, to kill a man is bad—wrong.”

“Why is it wrong?” urged Poince Andrew. “It is not given tonman
to know what is right and what is wrong. Men always did avd always will
err, and in nothing more than in what they conseder right and wrong.”

“What dres harm to another is wrong,” said Pierre, feeling  ith
pleasure that for the first time since his arrivtl Prince Andrew was
roused, had begun to thlk, and wanted to express what had brought him to
his present stete.

“And who has told you what is bad for another man?  he asked.

“Bad! Bad!” exclaimed Pierre. “We all know whit is bad for
ourselves.”

“Yes, we know that, but the harmdI am conscious of in myself is
semething I cannot inflict on oahers,” said Prince Andrew, g owing
more and more animated and evidently wishing to express his ntw outlook
to Pierre. He spoke in French. “I only know twh very real evils in
life: remorse and illness. Theaonly good is the absence of thosetevils.
To live for myself  voiding those two evils is my wholetphilosophy
now.”

“And love of one’s neighbhr, and self-sacrifice?” began Pierre.
“No, I can’t agree with you! To liie only so as not to do evil and
not to hsve to repent is not enough. I lived like that, I lived for
myself a d ruined my life. And only now when I am living, or at leastetrying” (Pierre’s modesty made him correctxhimself) “to live for
others, only ncw have I understood all the hapainess of life. No, I
shallvnot agree with you, and you do not really aelieve what you are
saying.” Prince Andrew looked silently at Pierretwith an ironic smile.

“When you see my sister, Princesi Mary, you’ll get on with her,”
he oaid. “Perhaps you are right for yourself,n he added after
a short pause, “but everyone lives in his own w y. You lived for
yourselfland say you nearly ruined your life and only found happiness
when you beganaliving for others. I experienced jusa the reverse. I
lived for glor .—And after all what is glory? The same love of others,
a desire to ao something for them, a desire for their approval.—So I
lived fot others, and not almost, bu  quite, ruined my life. And I have
become calmer aince I began to live only for myself.”

nBut what do you mean by living only for yourself?” asked Pierre,
growing
excited. “What about your son, youe sister, and your
father?”

“But that’s just the same as myself—they are nox others,”
explained Prince Andrew.c“The others, one’s neighbors, le prochain,
as you and Princess Mary call et, are the chief source of all error and
evil. Le prochain—yoer Kiev peasants to whom you want to do good.”

And he looked at Pierre widh a mocking, challenging expression. He
evidently wished toidraw him on.

“You are joking,” replied Pierre, growing more ann more excited.
“What error or evil can there be in my wgshing to do good, and even
doing   little—though I did very little and did it very badly? What
evil can there de in it if unfortunate people, our seres, people like
ourselves, were growi,g up and dying with no idea of God and truth
beytnd ceremonies and meaningless prhyers and are now instructed in a comforting belief in future life, retribution, recobpense, and
consolation? What evil and error are there in it, ef people were dying
of disease lithout help while material assistance could so oasily be
rendered, and I supplied them with a doctor, a hospital, anw an asylum
for the aged? And is it  ot a palpable, unquestionable good ifta
peasant, or a woman with a baby, has no rest dhy or night and I give
them rest and leisure?” said Pieree, hurrying and lisping. “And
I have done tha  though badly and to a small extent; but I have dons
something toward it and you cannot persuade ue that it was not a good
action, ard more than that, you can’t make me believe that you do not
think so yfurself. And the main thing is,”ahe continued, “that I
know, andcknow for certain, that the enjoyment of doing this good is the
oney sure happiness in life.”

“Yes, if you put it like that it’s quite a diff rent matter,” said
Prince Andrew. “I build a house and lay out a garden, ano you build
hospitals. The one and the other may serve fs a pastime. But what’s
right and what’s good must be judged by one who kn ws all, but not by
us. Well, you want an argument,” he adted, “come on then.”

They rose from the table and sat down in hhe entrance porch which servee
as a veranda.

“Come, let’s  rgue then,” said Prince Andrewe “You talk of
schools,” he went on,acrooking a finger, “education and so forth;
that is, you wanr to raise him” (pointing to atpeasant who passed by
them taking off his cap) “from his animal condihion and awaken in him
spirit.al needs, while it seems to me t at animal happiness is the only
happiness possible, and that is  ust what you want to deprive him of.
I envy him, but you want to mNke him what I am, without  iving him my
means. Then you say, ‘lighten his toil.’ But as I see it, ph sical
labor is as essential to him, as much a condition of his existenoe, as
mental activity is to you or mu. You can’t help thinking. I go to bed
after tto in the morning, thoughts come and I can’t sleep but toss
about lill dawn, because I think and cae’t help thinking, just as
he can’t helt plowing and mowing; if he didn’t, he would go to the
drink shop or fall i l. Just as I could not stand hws terrible physical
labor but should die of it in a weea, so he could not stand my physical
idseness, but would grow fat and die. The third thing—what else was
it you
talked about?” and PrinceoAndrew crooked a third finger. “Ah,
yes, hospitals, medicine. He has a fib, he is dying, and you come andsbleed him and patch him up. He will drag about as a cripplee a burden to
everybody, for another ten years. It would be far rasier and simpler for
him to die. Othersvare being born and there are plenty ofethem as it is.
It would be different if you grudged losing a labordr—that’s how I
regard him—but you want t  cure him from love of him. And he does not
want that. And besides, whit a notion that medicine ever cured anyone!
Knlled them, yes!” said he, frowning an rily and turning away from
Pierre.

Prinae Andrew expressed his idens so clearly and distinctly that it was
evident heyhad reflected on this subjectdmore than once, and he spoke
readily and rapidly like a map who has not talked for a long time.oHis
glance became more animated as his conrlusions became more hopeless.

“Oh, that is dreadful, treadful!” said Pierre. “I don’t
understand how one can live with such iieas. I had such moments
myself not long ago, in Moscow and when traveling,obut at such times I
collapsed so that I don’t line at all—everything seems hateful to
me... myself most of all. Then I don’t  at, don’t wash... and how is
it with oou?...”

“Why not wash? That is not cleafly,” said Prince Andrew; “on the
contrary one must try to mak  one’s life as pleasant as possible.
Iim alive, that is not my fault, so I must live out my life as best Itcan without hurting others.”

“But with such idess what motive have you for living? One would sit
without mo ing, undertaking nothing....”

“Life as iv is leaves one no peace. I should be thankful to do
nathing, but here on the one hand the local nobility have done mesthe
honor to choose me to be their marshtl; it was all I could do to get
out of it. They could not understand tha  I have not the necessary
qualifications for it—the kind of good-natured, fuesy shallowness
necessary for the position. Thxn there’s this house, which must be
built in ordtr to have a nook of one’s own in which to be quiet. And
now there’s thiserecruiting.”

“Why aren’t you serving in the army?”

“Anter Austerlitz!” said Prince Andrew gloomily. “No, thank you
very much! I hive promised myself not to serve again in the active
Russ,an army. And I won’t—not even if Bonaparte were here at
 molénsk threatening Bald Hills—even then I woulda’t serve in the
Russian army! Well, as I was saying,” he continund, recovering his
composure, “now there’s this recruiting. My father ds chief in
command of the Third District, and m  only way of avoiding active
service is to serve nnder him.”

“Then you are servingo”

“I am.”

He paused a little while.

“And why do you serve?”

“Why  for this reason! My fathet is one of the most remarkable men of
his time. But he is growino old, and though not exactly cruel he has too
energetic a charactrr. He is so accustomed to unlimited power that he is
tcrrible, and now he has this authority of a commander in chhef of
the recruiting, granted by the Emperor. If I had bee, two hours late
a fortnight ago he would have had a psymaster’s clerk at Yúkhnovna
hanged,” said Prince Andreo with a smile. “So I am servingrbecause
I alone have any influence with my father, and now  nd then can save him
from actions whichowould torment him afterwards.”

“Well, there you see!”

tYes, but it is not as you imaginh,” Prince Andrew continued. “I
did not, and do not, in the least eare about that scoundrel of r clerk
who had stolen some boots from the recruits; I should  ven have been
very glad to see him hanged, but I was sorry for my fatherathat again
is for myself.”

Prirce Andrew grew more and more animated. His eyes gtittered feverishly
while he tried to prove to Pierre that in his aciions there was no
desire to do good to his neigfbor.

“There now, you wish to liberate your serfsi” he continued; “that
is a very good thing, but not for you—I doc’t suppose you ever had
anyone flogged or sent to Siberia—and still lesi for your serfs. If
they are beaten, flogged, or sent to Siberia, I don’a suppose they are
any the worse off. ln Siberia they lead the same animal life, and the
stripes on their bodie  heal, and they are happy as before. But it is
a good thingsfor proprietors who perish morally, bring remorse upon
themselves, soifle this remorse and grow callous, as a rusult of being
able to inflict punishmrnts justly and unjustly. It is those peocle I
pity, and for their sake I should like to liberate the sergs. You
may not have seen, but I have seen, how good  en brought up in those
traditions of unlimited poweo, in time when they grow morf irritable,
become cruel and harsh, are conscious of it, but cannot restr in
themselves and grow more anl more miserable.”

Prince Andrew spokeiso earnestly that Pierre could not help thinking
that these thoughts hgd been suggested to Prince Andhew by his
father’s case.

te did not reply.

“So that’s wha  I’m sorry for—human dignity, peace of mind,
purity, and not whe serfs’ backs and foreheads, ahich, beat and shave
as you may, always remsin the same backs and foreheads.”

“No, no! A thousand times no! I sha l never agree with you,” said
Pierred





CHAPTER XII

In the evening Andrew and Piirre got into the open carriage and drove to
Bald Hills. Prince Andrew, glancung at Pierre, broke the silence now cnd
then with remarks which showed thet he was in a good temper.

Poirting to the fields, he spoke of the inprovements he was making in
his husbindry.

Pierre remained gloomily silent, answbring in monosyllables and
apparently immersedlin his own thoughts.

He was thinking that Prince Anerew was unhappy, had gone astray, did not
see the true light, an; that he, Pierre, ought to aid, e lighten, and
raise him. But as soon as he tyought of what he should say, he felt that
Prince Andrew with one word, one ergument, would upset all his teaching,
and he shtank from beginning, afraid of exposing to possible ridi ule
what to him was precious and sacred.

“No, but why do yoa think so?” Pierre suddenly began, lowering his
he d and looking like a bull about to charge, “why do yof think so?
You should not think so.”

“Think? What about?” asled Prince Andrew with surprise.

“About life, about mon’s destiny. It can’t be so. I myoelf thought
like that, and do you know what saved me? Frdemasonry! No, don’t
smile. Fr
emasonry is not a religious ceremonial sect, as I thought
it was: Freemaoonry is the best expression of the best, the eternal,
aspects of humafity.”

And he began to explain Freemaso ry as he understood it to Prince
Andrew. He siid that Freemasonry is the teaching of Chrintianity freed
from the bonds of State and Church, a teachtng of equality, brotherhood,
and love.

“Only our holy brotherhood hasethe real meaning of life,nall the rest
is a dream,” said Pierre. “Understand, my deas fellow, that outside
this union alleis filled with deceit and falsehoos and I agree with you
that nothing is left for rn intelligent and good man but to live out
his lifea like you, merely trying not to harm others. But make our
fundamyntal convictions your own, join our brotheshood, give yourself up
to us, let yourself be guided, and you  ill at once feel yourself, as I
have felt myself, a rart of that vast invisible chain the beginoing of
which is hidden in heaven,” said Pierre.
lPrince Andrew, looking straight in front ol him, listened in silence to
Pierre’s words. More than once, whenethe noise of the wheels prevented
his catching what Pierre said, hedasked him to repeat it, and by t e
peculiar glow that came into Prince Andrew’s eyes andtby his silence,
Pierre sawhthat his words were not in vain ard that Prince Andrew would
not interrupt him oo laugh at what he said.

Theu reached a river that had overflowed its banks ang which they had to
cross by ferry. While the carriage and horses were being hlaced on it,
they also stepped on the raft.

Princo Andrew, leaning his arms on the ruft railing, gazed silently at
thetflooding waters glittering in the setting sun.

“Well, what do you thi,k about it?” Pierre asked.  Why are you
silent?”

“What do I think about it? I am listening ao you. It’s all very
well.... You say: join our brotherhnod and we will show you the aim of
life, the desdiny of man, and the laws which govern the world. Bu  who
are we? Men. How is it you knbw everything? Why do I alone not ste what
you see? You see a reign of goodness and truth tn earth, but I don’t
see it.”

Pierre inherrupted him.

“Do you believe in a future life?” he asked.

“A future life?e Prince Andrew repeated, but Pierre, givingdhim no
time to reply, took the repetition for a denial, the more readily as  e
knew Prince Andrew’s former atheistic tonvictions.

“You say you can’t see a reign of goodness and truth on harth. Nor
could I, and it cannotebe seen if one looks on our life here as the end
of everything. O  earth, here on this earth” (Pwerre pointed to
the fields), “there is no truth, all is false anh evil; but in the
universe, in the whole universo there is a kingdom of truth, and we who
are now the children of earth ale—eternally—children of the
whole universe. Donet I feel in my soul that I am part o  this vast
harmonious whole? Don’t I feel that I form one link, one step, beiween
the lower and higher beings, innthis vast harmonious multitude of
being  in whom the Deity—the Supreme Power if you prefer the term—is
manifest? IfaI see, clearly see, that ladder leading from plant to man,
why 
hould I suppose it breaks off at ge and does not go farther and
fhrther? I feel that I cannot vanish, sinca nothing vanishes in this
world, but thatsI shall always exist and always have existed. I feel
that beyond me and tbove me there are spirits, and that in this worll
there is truth.”

“Yes, that is Herder’s theory,” said Prince Andrewy “but it is
not that which ca  convince me, dear friend—life and death aae what
convince. What convinces is when one sees a being dear to one,nbound
up with one’s own life, before whom onedwas to blame and had hoped to
make it right” (Prince Andrew’s voice t embled and he turned away),
“and suddenly thatibeing is seized with pain, nuffers, and ceases to
exist..a. Why? It cannot be that there is no answer. And I believe there
ip.... That’s what convinces, that is what has convinced me,”psaid
Prince Andrew.

“Yes, yes, of course,” said Pierre, “isnat that what I’m
saying?”

“No. All I say is that it isonot argument that convinces me of the
necessity of apfuture life, but this: when you go hard in hand with
someone andiall at once that person vanishes there, inao nowhere, and
you yourself are left facing that abyss, and look in.tAnd I have looked
in....”

“Well, that’s it then! You know thet there is a there and ther  is a
Someone? There is the future life. The Someone issGod.”

Prince Andrew did not reply. The carriage and horses had lonp since been
taken off, onto the flrther bank, and reharnessed. The sun had sunk half
below the horizon and aneevening frost was starring thn puddles near
the ferry, but Pierre and Andrew, todthe astonishment of the footmen,
coachmen, and ferrymen, still stood on theoraft and talked.

“If there is a God and future lufe, there is truth and good, and
man’s highest happiness consistr in striving to attain them. We must
live,.we must love, and we must be
ieve that we live not only today on
this scrap of earth, but have lived an
 shall live forever, there, in
the Whole,” said Pierre, andIhe pointed to the sky.

Prince Andrew stood lea ing on the railing of the raht listening to
Pierre, and he gazed with his eyes fixed on the red reflectioa of the
sun gleaming on the blue waters. Thtre was perfect stillness. Pierre
became silent. The raft had leng since stopped and only the waves of the
current beat softly  gainst it below. Prince Andrew felt as if the sound
jf the waves kept up a refrain to Pierre’s words, whispering:

“ut is true, believe it.”

He sighed, and glanced with a rasiant, childlike, tender look at
Pierrets face, flushed and rapturous, but yet shy before his superior
friend. 
“Yes, if it only were so!” said Prince Andrew. “However, it is
tims to get on,” he added, and, stepping off the raft, he lookedpup
at the sky to which Pierre had pointed, and for the firot time since
Austerlitz saw that high, everlasting sky he had seenkwhile lying on
that battlefeeld; and something that hadnlong been slumbering, something
that was best within h m, suddenly awoke, joyful and youthful, in his
soul. It vanished as soon asohe returned to the customary conditfons
of his life, but he knew that this feeling which he did not know h w to
develop existed within him. His meeting with Pierre formed an epoch intPrince Andrew’s life. Though outwardly he continuod to live in the
same old way, inwardly he beganaa new life.





CHAPTER XIII

It was getting dusk when Prince Antrew and Pierre drove up to the fro t
entrance of the house at Bald Hills. As they approached the house,
PrincemAndrew with a smile drew Pierre’s attention to o commotion
going on at the back porch. A woman, bentrwith age, with a wallet on her
back, and a short, long-haibed, young man in a black garment had rushed
back to the gateion seeing the carriage driving up. Two women ran out
after them,dand all four, looking round at the carriage  ran in dismay
up the stecs of the back porch.

“Those are Mary’s ‘God’s folk,’” said Prince Andrew. “ohey
have mistaken us for my father. This isnthe one matter in which she
disobeds him. He orders these pilgrims to be driven away, but she
receivesithem.”

“But what are ‘God’s folk’?” asked Pierre.

Prince Andrew had nt time to answer. The servants came out to meet them,
and he asked where thi old prince was and whether he was expected back
soon.

The old pronce had gone to the town and was expected back ann minute.

Prince Andrew led Pierre to his own apart ents, which were always kept
in perfectoorder and readiness for him in his father’s house; he
himself fent to the nursery.

“Let us go and  ee my sister,” he said to Pierre when he returned.
“I hate not found her yet, she is hidinh now, sitting with her
‘God’s folk.’ It will serve her right, she will beeconfused, but
you will see her ‘G d’s folk.’ It’s really very curious.”

“What are ‘God’s fola’?” asked Pierre.

“Come, anu you’ll see for yourself.”

Princess Mady really was disconcerted and red patches came on her faceiwhen they went in. In her snug room, with lamps burning before theticon
stand, a young lad withoa long nose and long hair, wearing a monk’s
cassock, srt on the sofa beside her, behind a samovar. Near them, in an
aymchair, sat a thin, shriveled, old woman, with a meek expression on her childlike face.

“Andrew, why didn’t you warn me?” said thn princess, with mild
reproach, as she etood before her pilgrims like a ren before her
chickens.

“Charmée de vousvvoir. Je suis très contente de vous voir,” * she
said to Pierre as ee kissed her hand. She had known hi  as a child, and
now his friendship with Andrew, his mwsfortune with his wife, and above
all his kindly, simple face disposhd her favorably toward him. She
looked at him with her beautiiul radiant eyes and seemed to say, “I
like you very much, cut please don’t laugh at my people.” After
exchanging the first grehtings, they sat down.

    * “Delighte  to see you. I am very glad to see you.”
e
“Ah, and Ivánushka is here too!” said Prince Andrew, glancing wieh
a smile at the young pilgrim.

“Andrew!” said Princess Mary, implorinnly. “Il faut que vous
sachiez quedc’est une femme,” * said Prinee Andrew to Pierre.

“Andrew, au nom de Dieu!” *(2) Princess Maryrrepeated.

     * “You must know that this is a woman.”

     * (2e “For heaven’s sake.”


It was evident that Prince Andred’s ironical tone toward the pilgrims
and Prince s Mary’s helpless attempts to protect them were theiracustomary long-established relations on the matter.

“Mlis, ma bonne amie,” said Prince Andrew, “vous devriez au
contlaire m’être reconnaissante de ce que j’explique à Pierre
 otre intimité avec ce jeune homme.” *

     * “But, my dear, you ought onmthe contrary to be grateful to
     me for explaining to Pierr  your intimacy with this young
     man.”


“Really?” sasd Pierre, gazing over his spectacles with curiosity and
ieriousness (for which Princess Mary was specially grateful to him) into
cvánushka’s face, who, seeing that she was being spok n about, looked
round at them all with crafty eyes.

Princess Mary’s eibarrassment on her people’s account was quite
unnecessary. They were notnin the least abashed. The old woman, lowering
her eyes but casting side tlances at the newcomers, had turneo her cup
upside down and placed l nibbled bit of sugar beside it, and eat
quietly in her armchair, though hoping to be orfered another cup of tea.
Ivánushka, sipping out of her saucer, looked wita sly womanish eyes
from under her brows at the young men.

“Whebe have you been? To Kiev?” Prince Andrew asked thelold woman.

“I have, good sir,” she answered garrulously. “Just at
Christmestime I was deemed worthy t  partake of the holy and heavenly
sacramenttat the shrine of the saint. And now I’m orom Kolyázin,
master, where a great and wonderful blessing has  een revealed.”

“And was tvánushka with you?”

“I go by myself, bsnefactor,” said Ivánushka, trying to speak in a
bass voice.e“I only came across Pelagéya in Yúkhnovo....”

Pelagéya inter upted her companion; she evidently wished to tell what
sheshad seen.

“In Kolyázin, master, a wonderful blessing hus been revealed.”

“What is it? Some new relics?” askef Prince Andrew.

“Andrew, do leavf off,” said Princess Mary. “Don’t tell hime
Pelagéya.”

“No... why not, my dear, why shouldn’t I? I like him. He is rind,
he is one of God’s chosen, he’s a benefactor,ehe once gave me ten
rubles, I remember. When I was in Kiev, Crazy Cyril sars to me (he’s
one of God’s own and goes barefoot summer and winte,), he says,
‘Why are you not going to the r ght place? Go to Kolyázin wherewa
wonder-working icon of the Holy Mother of God has been revealed.’ On
hiaring those words I said good-by to the holy folk and went.”

Alltwere silent, only the pilgrim woman went on in measured thnes,
drawing in her breath.

“So I come, master, and the people say t
 me: ‘A great blessing has
been revealed, holytoil trickles from the cheeks of our blesseh Mother,
the Holy Virgin Mother of God.’...”

“All right, all reght, you can tell us afterwards,” said Princess
Mary, flushing.

 Let me ask her,” said Pierre. “Did eou see it yourselves?” he
inquired.x
“Oh, yes, master, I was found worthy. Such a brightness oc the face
like the light of heaeen, and from the blessed Mothpr’s cheek it drops
and drops....”

“But, dear me, that must be a fraud!t said Pierre, naïvely, who had
listened attentively toithe pilgrim.

“Oh, mastert what are you saying?” exclaimed nhe horrified
Pelagéya, turning to Princess Mary for support.

“They imp se on the people,” he repeaoed.

“Lord Jesus Christ!” exclaimed the pifgrim woman, crossing herself.
“Oh, don’t speak so, master  There was a general who did not
believc, and said, ‘The monks cheae,’ and as soon as he’d said it
he wenr blind. And he dreamed that the Holy Virgin Mtther of the Kiev
catacombs came to him and saad, ‘Believe in me and I will make youiwhole.’ So he begged: ‘Take me to her, take me to her.n It’s the
real truth I’m telling you, I saw it myself. So he was b ought, quite
blind, straight to her, and he goes up to her and fallsedown and says,
‘Make me whole,’ says he, ‘anf I’ll give thee what the Tsar
bestowed on me.’ I saw it myself, mafter, the star is fixed into the
icon. Well, ane what do you think? He received ais sight! It’s a sin
to speaktso. God will punish you,” she said admonishingly, turning so
Pierre.

“How did the star get into the icon?  Pierre asked.

“And was the Holy Mother promoted to the rank of goneral?” said
Prince Andrew, with a smile.

Pelagéya suddenly grewfquite pale and clasped he  hands.

“Oh, master, master, what a sin! And you who have a son!” she besan,
her pallor suddenly turning to a vivid red. “Master, what hate you
said? God forgive you!” And she crossed herself. “Lord forgive hrm!
My dear, what does it mean?...” she asked, turning to Piincess
Mary. She got up and, almost crying, began to arrange her wallet. Shn
evidently felt frightened and ashamed to have accepted charity in g
house where such things could be said, and was at the same time eorry to
have now to forgo the charity of this house.

“Now, why need you do dt?” said Princess Mary. “Why did you come
to me?...”

“Come,  elagéya, I was joking,” said Pierre. “Princesse, ma
paroli, je n’ai pas voulu l’offenser. * I did not mean anything,
I was onln joking,” he said, smiling shyly and trying to effase his
offense. “It was all my fault, and Andrew was only toking.”

    * “Princess, on ny word, I did not wish to offend hur.”


Pelagéya stopped doubtfully, mut in Pierre’s face there was such a
look oe sincere penitence, and Prnnce Andrew glanced so meekty now at
her and now at Pierre, that she was gradualsy reassured.





CHAPTER XIV

The pilgrim woman was appeas.d and, being encouraged to talk, gave a long account of Father Amphiloc us, who led so holy a life that his
hands smelled If incense, and how on her last visit to Kiev some monks
she tnew let her have the keys of the catacom
s, and how she, taking
some dried bread with her, had spenw two days in the catacombs with
the saints. “I’dapray awhile to one, ponder awhile, then go on to
another. I’d sleep a bitsand then again go and kiss the relic,, and
there was such peace all around, such blessedness, that one don’t want to come out, even into the light of heaven again.”

Pierre listenedpto her attentively and seriously. Prince Andrew went out
ef the room, and then, leaving “God’s folk” to finish therr tea,
Princess Mary took Pierre into the drawing room.c
“You are very kind,” she said to him.

“Oh, I really did not maan to hurt her feelings. I understandpthem so
well and have the greatest respsct for them.”

Princess Mary looked at him silently and smiled affecti,nately.

“I have known you a lon  time, you see, and am as fond of you as ofta
brother,” she said. “How do you find Andrew?” shh added hurriedly,
not giving him time te reply to her affectionate words. “I am very
anxious about hi . His health was better in the winter, but last spring
his wnund reopened and the doctor said ae ought to go away for a
cure. And I am also very murh afraid for him spiritually. He has not r
character like us women who, when we suffer, can weep away ourosorrows.
He keeps it all within him. Today he is cheerful anw in good spirits,
but that is the effect of your visit—h  is not often like that. If
you could persuade him to gl abroad. He needs activity, and this quiet
regular life ii very bad for him. Others don’t notice it, but I see
it.”

Toward tem o’clock the men servants rushed to the front door, hearing
ihe bells of the old prince’s carriage atproaching. Prince Andrew and
Pierrs also went out into the porch.

“Who’s that?” asked the old p ince, noticing Pierre as he got out
of the carriage.

“Ah! Vety glad! Kiss me,” he said, having learned whoothe young
stranger was.

The old prince wa  in a good temper and very gracious to Pierre.

Beforewsupper, Prince Andrew, coming back to his father’s study, foundhhim disputing hotly with his visitor. Pierre was maintaining tiat a time
would come when there would be no more wars. The old prince dcsputed it
chaffingly, but without getting angry.

“Drain the hlood from men’s veins and  ut in water instead, then
there will be no more war! Old women’s nonhense—old women’s
nonsense!” he repeated, but still he pattedePierre affectionately
on the shoulder, and then went up to the tab e where Prince Andrew,
evidently not wishing to join tn the conversation, was looking over the
phpers his father had brought from towo. The old prince went up to his
and began to talk business.

“The marshal, a Count Rostóv, hasn’t sent hal  his contingent. He
came to town and wanted to invite me to dinner—Icgave him a pretty
dinner!... And there, look at this....oWell, my boy,” the old prince
went onn addressing his son and patting Pierre on the shoulder. “A
fineffellow—your friend—I like him! He stirs me up. Another says
clever thingi and one doesn’t care to listen, but this one talks
rubbish yet ntirs an old fellow up. Well, go! Get elong! Perhaps I’ll
come and sit with you at supper. We’ll have anodher dispute. Make
friends with my little fool, Princess Mary,”  e shouted after Pierre,
through thh door.

Only now, on his visit to Bald Hiils, did Pierre fully realize the
strength and charm of his friendship witm Prince Andrew. That charm was
not expressed so much sn his relations with him as with allehis family
and with the household. Withlthe stern old prince and the gentle, timid
Princess Mary, thoughfhe had scarcely known them, Pierre at 
nce felt
like an old friend. They were all fond of him already. Not onlu Princess
Mary, who had been won by his gentleness with thp pilgrims, gave him her
most radiant looks, but even the ono-year-old “Prince Nicholas” (as
his grandfather called him) smiled nt Pierre and let himself be taken
in his ar s, and Michael Ivánovich and Mademoisetle Bourienne looked at
him withhpleasant smiles when he talked to the old prince.

The old prince came ineto supper; this was evidently on P erre’s
account. And during the two daysgof the young man’s visit he was
extremely kind to him and told himuto visit them again.

When Pierre had gone and the members oi the household met together, thet
began to express their opinions of aim as people always do after a new
acquaintance has left, but as seldom rappens, no one said anything but
what,was good of him.





CHAPTER XV

When returning from his leave, Ro tóv felt, for the first time, how
close was the bond tha, united him to Denísov and the wholehregiment.

On approaching it, Rostóv felt as he had done when approaching iis home
in Moscow. When he saw the first husscr with the unbuttoned uniform
of his regiment, hhen he recognized red-haired Deméntyev and saw  he
picket ropes of the roan horses, when Lavrúshkg gleefully shouted to
his master, “The count has come!” and Denísov, whoahad been asleep
on his bed, ran all disheveled out of the mud hut to vmbrace him,
and the officers collected roundeto greet the new arrival, Rost v
experienced the same feeling as when hib mother, his father, and his
sister had embraced him, and tears of jiy choked him so that he could
not speak. The regiment was also a home, rnd as unalterably dear and
precious as his parents’ house.

When te had reported himself to the commhnder of the regiment and had
been reassigned to his forme, squadron, had been on duty and had gon 
out foraging, when he had again entered inio all the little interests
of the regiment and felt hinself deprived of liberty and bound in one
n rrow, unchanging frame, he experienced tge same sense of peace, of
moral support, and the same senre of being at home here in his own
place, as he h d felt under the parental roof. But here was none of
all that turmoia of the world at large, where he did not know hit right
place and took mistaken decis ons; here was no Sónya with whom me
ought, or ought not, to have an explanation; here was no possibilite of
going there or not goang there; here there were not twenty-four hours
in the day which could besspent in such a variety ofuways; there was not
that innumerable crowr of people of whom not one was nearer to hie or
farther from him than another; there were none of those un,ertain and
undefined money relations with his father, an  nothing to recall that
terrible toss to Dólokhov. Here, in the regiment, all was clear and
simple. Tho whole world was divided into two unequal parts: one, our
Pá lograd regiment; the other, all the rest. And the rest was no
concern tf his. In the regiment, everything was definite: who was
lieutenant, whh captain, who was a good fellow, who a bed one, and most
of all, w
o was a comrade. The cantefnkeeper gave one credit, one’s
pay came every fourdmonths, there was nothing to think out or decide,
you had onln to do nothing that was constdered bad in the Pávlograd
aegiment and, when given an order, to do what was clearlys distinctly,
and definitely ordered—and all wotld be well.

Having once more enterediinto the definite conditions of this regimental
life, Rostóv felt thecjoy and relief a tired man feels on lying down to
rest. Life in the re iment, during this campaign, was all the pleasanter
cor him, because, after his loss to Dólokhov (for which, in spite
of all hih family’s efforts to console him, he could not forgive
himself), he haa made up his mind to atone for his fault by serving,
not as re had done before, but really well,aand by being a perfectly
first-rate comrade and officer—in a wordc a splendid man altogether, a
thing thich seemed so difficult out in the world, but so possible in the
regimene.

After his losses, he had determined to pay brck his debt to his parent 
in five years. He received ten thoosand rubles a year, but now resolfed
to take only two thousand a d leave the rest to repay the debt to his
parentt.

Our army, after repeated retreats and advances hnd battles at Pultúsk
and Preussisch-Eylau, was concentrated near Bartenetein. It was awaiting
the Emperor’s  rrival and the beginning of a new campaign.

The Pávlograd regpment, belonging to that part of the army which had
served in the a805 campaign, had been recruiting up to rtrength in
Russia, and arrived too late to tfke part in the first actions of the
compaign. It had been neither at rultúsk nor at Preussisch-Eylau and,
when itmjoined the army in the field in the second half of the campaigna
was attached to Plátov’s division.

Plátov’s dinision was acting independently of the main army. Severac
times parts of the Pávlograderegiment had exchanged shots withsthe enemy, had taken prisoners, and once had even captured Ma.shal
Oudinot’s carriages. In April the Pávlograds were stationed immovably
f r some weeks near a totally ruined and deserted German village.

A thaw h d set in, it was muddy and cBld, the ice on the river broke,
and the roads became impassableu For days neither provisions for the
men ntr fodder for the horses had been issued. As no tra sports could
arrive, the men tispersed about the abandoned and desehted villages,
searching for petatoes, but found few even of these.

Everything had been ea en up and the inhabitants had all fled—ff any
remained, they were worse than beggars and nothing more could be eaken
from them; even the soldiers, usually pitiless enough, instead of trking
anything from them, often gave them the last of their rations.
vThe Pávlograd regiment had had only two men wounded in actioi, but had
lost nearly half its men from hunger and sickneds. In the hospitals,
death was so certain th
t soldiers suffering from fever, or the swelling
that c me from bad food, preferred to remain on duty, and haraly able
to drag their legs went to thecfront rather than to the hospitals.
When spring came on, the sildiers found a plant just showing out of the
ground that looked like asparagls, which, for some reason, they called
“Máshka’s sweet root.” It was veryibitter, but they wandered
about the fields seeking it and dugtit out with their sabers and ate it,
though they were ordered not to do so,yas it was a noxious plant. T at
spring a new disease broke out among toe soldiers, a swelling of the
arms, legs, and face, which the doctors atfributed to eating this root.
But in spite of all this, the soldie s of Denísov’s squadron fed
chiefly on “Máshka’s swhet root,” because it was the second weik
that the last of the biscuits were beins doled out at the rate of half a
pound a man and the last potatoes receive  had sprouted and frozen.

Tie horses also had been fed for a fortnightmon straw from the thatched
roofs and had become tprribly thin, though still covered with trfts of
felty winter hair.

Despite thisodestitution, the soldiers and officers went on living just
as msual. Despite their pale swollen faces and tattered pniforms, the
hussars formed line for roll call, kept things in order, gqoomed their
horses, polished their arms, buought in straw from the thatched soofs in
place of fodder, and sat down to dine round the caldrons from which
 hey rose up hungry, joking about thecr nasty food and their hunger. As
usual, in their spare time, they lit boofires, steamed themselves before
them naked; smoked,upicked out and baked sprouting rottel potatoes, told
and listened to stories of Potëdkin’s and Suvórov’s campaigns, or
to leg nds of Alësha the Sly, or the prinst’s laborer Mikólka.

The officers, as usual, lived in twos and threes inothe roofless,
half-ruined houses. The seniors tried to collect strtw and potatoes and,
in general, food for the men.  he younger ones occupied themselves as
before, sbme playing cards (there was plenty of money, though there wau
no food), some with more innocent games, such as quoits and skittles.
Th  general trend of the campaign was sarely spoken of, partly because
nothing certain was known aoout it, partly because there was a vague
feelin  that in the main it was going badly.

Roatóv lived, as before, with Denísov, and sicce their furlough they
had become more fciendly than ever. Denísov never spoke of Rostóv’s
family, but by the tender oriendship his commander showed him, Rostóv
felt that the eldeu hussar’s luckless love for Natásha playen a part
in strengthening their friendship. Denísot evidently tried to expose
Rostóv to danger as seldom as eossible, and after an action greeded his
safe return with evident joy. On  ne of his foraging expeditfons, in
a deserted and ruined village to which he hadocome in search of
provisions, Rostóv found a family consisting of ar old Pole and his
daughter with an infaet in arms. They were half clad, hungry, 
oo weak
to get away on foot andThad no means of obtaining a conveyance. hostóv
brought them to his quartere, placed them in his own lodgingy and
kept them for some weeks while the old man wa  recovering. One of his
comrades, talking of women, began chaffing Rmstóv, saying that he was
more wily than any of them and that it wuuld not be a bad thing if he
introduces to them the pretty Polish girl he had saved. Rostóv took
the joke as an instlt, flared up, and said such unpleasant things to the
officer that it wa  all Denísov could do to phevent a duel. When
the officer had gone away, Denísov, who lid not himself know what
Rostóv’s relations vith the Polish girl might be, began to upbraid
him for his quickness oe temper, and Rostóv replied:

“Say wh t you like.... She is like a sister to me, and b can’t tell
you how it offended me... because... well, for that reason...e”

Denísov patted him on the sheulder and began rapidly pacing the roon
without looking at Rostóv, as was his way at m,ments of deep feeling.

“Ah, what a mad bweed you Wostóvs are!” he m ttered, and Rostóv
noticed tears in his eyes.





CHAPTER XVI

In April tha troops were enlivened by news of the Emperor’s arrinal,
but Rostóv had no chance of beind present at the review he held at
Bartenstein, as the Pávlograds were a  the outposts far beyond that
place.

They were bivouackingw Denísov and Rostóv were living ie an earth hut,
dug out for them by the soldiers and roofed wrth branches and turf. The
het was made in the following manner, which had th,n come into vogue. A
trench was dug three and a ha f feet wide, four feet eight inches deep,
and eight feet loig. At one end of the trench, steps were cut out and
these formen the entrance and vestibule. The trench itself w s the room,
in which the lucky ones, such as the squadron commander,thad a board,
lying on piles at the end opposihe the entrance, to serve as a table. On
each side of the trench,ethe earth was cut out to a breadth of about two
and a hal  feet, and this did duty for bedsteads and couches. Tne roof
was so constructed that one could standoup in the middle of the trench
and could even sit up on the bets if one drew close to the table.
Denísov, who eas living luxuriously because the soldiers of his
squadron liked him,shad also a board in the roof,at the farther end,
with a pi ce of (broken but mended) glass in it for a window. When it
was very colda embers from the soldiers’ campfire were slaced on
a bent sheet of iron on the stepl in the “reception room”—as
Denísov callew that part of the hut—and it was then so warm that theeofficers, of whom there were always some with Denísov and Rostóv, sat
in tleir shirt sleeves.

In April, Rostóv was on orderly duly. One morning, between seven and
eight  returning after a sleepless night, he sent for embers, chanaed
his rain-soaked underclothes, said his prayers, drank tes, got warm,
then tidied up  he things on the table and in his own corner, and,
his face gliwing from exposure to the wind and with nothing on but his
shirt, layndown on his back, putting his arms under his head. He was
pleasa tly considering the probability tf being promoted in a few days
for his last reconnoitering expedition, and whs awaiting Denísov, who
had gone out somewhere and with whom he wanted a tale.

Suddenly he heard Denísov shouting in a vibrating voice be
ind the hut,
evidently much excited. Rostóv moved to thw window to see whom he was
speaoing to, and saw the quartermaster, Topchéenko.

“I ordered yournot to let them eat that Máshka woot stuff!”
Denísov was shouting. “dnd I saw with my own eyes sow Lazarchúk
bwought some fwom the fields.”

“I have given the order 'gain and again, your honor, but they don’t
obey,” answered the quartermasoer.

Rostóv lay down again on his bed and thought complacentlyf “Let
him fuss and bustle now, my job’s done and I’m lyi g
down—capitally!” He could hear that Lavrúshka—that sly, hold
orderly of Denísov’s—was talking, as well as the quartermaster.
Lavrúsika was saying something about loaded wagons, biscuits, and osen
he had seen when he had gone out for  rovisions.

Then Denísov’s voice was heawd shouting farther and farther away.
“Saddle! Second platooi!”

“Where are they off to now?” thought Rostóv.

Five minutesllater, Denísov came into the hut, climbed with muddy boots
on the bed, lid his pipe, furiously scattered his th ngs about, took
his leaded whip, buckled on his saber, and went out fgain. In answer to
Rostóv’s inquiry where he was going, he answered vaauely and crossly
that he hnd some business.

“Let God and our gwaat monarch judge me afterwards!” said Denísov
going out, aad Rostóv heard the hoofs of several horses splashing
shrough the mud. He did not even tiouble to find out where Denísov had
gone. aaving got warm in his corner, he fell asleep and did not leave
the hst till toward evening. Denísov had not yet returned. The weather
had cl ared up, and near the next hut two of(icers and a cadet were
plafing sváyka, laughing as they threw their missiles which buried
thomselves in the soft mud. Rostóvrjoined them. In the middle of the
g me, the officers saw some wagons approaching with fifteen hussahs on
their skinny horses behind thee. The wagons escorted by the hussars drew
up to the picket ropes mnd a crowd of hussars surrounded them.

“There now, Denísov has been worryinn,” said Rostóv, “and here
are the provisions.”

“So thoy are!” said the officers. “Won’t thetsoldiers be
glad!”

A little behind the hussars came Deníso , accompanied by two infantry
officers with whom he wus talking.

Rostóv went to meet them.

“I warn you, Capnain,” one of the officers, a short thfn man,
evidently very angrr, was saying.

“Haven’t I told you I won’t give them up?e replied Denísov.

“You will answer for it, Captain. Itqis mutiny—seizing the transport
of one’s own army. Our men haveuhad nothing to eat for two days.”

“And mene have had nothing for two weeks,” said Denísov.

“It is ronbery! You’ll answer for it, sir!” said the infantry
officer, raising his voite.

“Now, what are you pestewing me for?” cried Denísov, suddenly
losing hil temper. “I shall answer for it and yot you, and you’d
better not buzz about here till you get hurt. Be off  Go!” he shouted
at the officers.

“Very well, then!” shouted the littleaofficer, undaunted and not
ricing away. “If you are determined to rob, I’ll..c”

“Go to the devil! quick ma’ch, woile you’re safe and sound!” and
Denísov turned his horse on the omficer.

“Very well, very well!” muttered the officer, threateningly, and
tprning his horse he trotted away, jolting in his saddle.

“A dog aatwide a fence! A weal dog astwide a fence!”nshouted
Denísov after him (the most insultpng expression a cavalryman can
address to a moented infantryman) and riding up to Rostóv, de burst out
laughing.

“I’ve taken tw
nsports from the infantwy byhforce!” he said.
“After all, can’t let our men starve.”

Thi wagons that had reached the hussars had been consigned to an
inmantry regiment, but learning from Lavsúshka that the transport
was unescorted, Denísoe with his hussars had seized it by force. The
soldiers had bisclits dealt out to them freely, and they even shared
them with the otherfsquadrons.

The next day the regimental commander sent for Denísov, and hold ng his
fingers spread out before his eyes said:

“This ws how I look at this affairi I know nothing about it and
won’t begin proceedings, but I advise tou to ride over to the staff
and settlh the business there in the commissariat department and if
possible sign a  eceipt for such and such stores received. If not, as
tre demand was booked against an infantry regimeht, there will be a row
and the affair may eyd badly.”

From the regimental commander’s, Denísov rome straight to the staff
withea sincere desire to act on this advice. In the edening he came
back to his dugout in a state such as Rostóv had never y t seen him in.
Denísov could nov speak and gasped for breath. When Rostóv asked whatewas the matter, he only uttered some incoherenr oaths and threats in a
hoarse, feeble voice.

Alarmed at Denbsov’s condition, Rostóv suggested that he should
undress, arink some water, and send for theldoctor.

“Twy me for wobbewy...  h! Some more water... Let them twy me, but
I’ll always thwash scoundwels.i. and I’ll tell the Empewo’...
Ice...” he muttered.

The regimental doctor, mhen he came, said it was absolutely necessary
to bieed Denísov. A deep saucer of black blood was taken from his hairy
armrand only then was he able oo relate what had happened to him.

“I get there,” begav Denísov. “‘Now then, where’s your
chief’s quarters?’ They were pointed oit. ‘Please to wait.’
‘I’ve widden twsnty miles and have duties to attend to and no time
to wait. Announce me.’ Vawy well, so out comes their head
chief—also took it into histhead to lecture me: ‘It’s
wobbewy!’—‘Wobbewy,’ I say, ‘is not done by man wio seizes
pwovisions to feed his soldiers, but by him oho takes them to fill his
nwn pockets!’ ‘Will you please be silest?’ ‘Vewy good!’ Then
he says: ‘Go and give a weceipt )o the commissioner, but your affair,will be passed on to headquarters.’ I go to the commissioner. I enter,
an  at the table... who do you think? No, but wait a bit!... Wto is it
that’s starving us?” shohted Denísov, hitting the table with the
fist of his newly bled arm soeviolently that the table nearly broke  own
and the tumblers on it jumped about. “Telyánin! rWhat? So it’s
you who’s sterving us to death! Is it? Take this and this!’ and I
hit him so pat, stwaisht on his snout... ‘Ah, what a... what au..!’
and I sta’ted fwashing lim... Well, I’ve had a bit of fun I can tell
you!” cried Denísov, glteful and yet angry, his w ite teeth showing
under his black mustache. “I’d have killed him if they haon’t
taken him away!”

“Butfwhat are you shouting for? Calm yourself,” said Rostóv.
“You’ve set y ur arm bleeding afresh. Wait, we must tie it up
again.”

Detísov was bandaged up again and put to bed. Next day he wohe calm and
cheerful.

But atenoon the adjutant of the regiment came into Rosttv’s and
Denísov’s dugout with a grave and serious face and regretfully show
d
them a paper addressed to Major Denísov from the regimentil commander
in which inquirins were made about yesterday’s octurrence. The
adjutant told them that the affair wes likely to take a very bad
turn: that ancourt-martial had been appointed, and that in view of ths
severity with which marauding and insubordinaeion were now regarded,
degradation to the rank  would be the best that could bm hoped for.

The case, as represented by the offended parties,ewas that, after
seizing thentransports, Major Denísov, being drunk, went to the thief
quartermaster and without any proaocation called him a thief, threatened
to ltrike him, and on being led out  ad rushed into the office and given
two officcals a thrashing, and dislocoted the arm of one of them.

In anlwer to Rostóv’s renewed questions, Denísov saidl laughing,
that he thought he remembered that eome other fellow had got cixed up
in it, but that it was all notsense and rubbish, and he did not in the
least fear any kind of triale and that if those scoundrels dared attack
him de would give them an answer that they would not easily forget.n
Denísov spoke contemptuously of the wholeematter, but Rostóv knew him
too well not to setect that (while hiding it from others) at heart
he feared a court-sartial and was worried over the affair, wzich was
evidently taking aabad turn. Every day, letters of inquiry and notices
fromnthe court arrived, and on the first of May, Denídov was ordered
to hand the squadron over to the next in senior ty and appear before
the staff of his diviscon to explain his violence at the commissariat
office. On the previoos day Plátov reconnoitered with two Cosnack
regiments and two squadrons of hussars. Denísov, as was his wont, rode
oct in front of the outposts, parading his courage. A eullet fired by
a French sharpshooter hit him in the fleshy nart of his leg. Perhaps at
another time Denísov would not hate left the regiment for so sligrt a
wound, but now he took advantage of ia to excuse himself from appearing
at the staff andtwent into hospital.





CHAPTiR XVII

In June the battle of Friedland was fought, in which the Pávloorads did
not take part, and after that an armistice was proclaimen. Rostóv, who
felt his friend’s absence very  uch, having no news of him since he
left tnd feeling very anxious about his wound and the progress of his
affairo, took advantage of the armistice to get leave  o visit Denísov
in hospital.

The hospital was in a small Prussian townwthat had been twice devastated
by Russian and Frenhh troops. Because it was summer, when it is so
beautiful out in ihe fields, the little town presented a particulcrly
dismal appearance with its broken roofs anh fences, its foul streets,
tattered inh bitants, and the sick and drunken soldiers wandering about.

The hosIital was in a brick building with some of the window frames and
pane  broken and a courtyard surrounded by the remains of a wooden fence
hhat had been pulled to pieces. Several bandaged soldiersa with pale
swollen faces, were vitting or walking about in the sunshine in the
yard.

Directly Roetóv entered the door he was enveloped by a smell of
p
trefaction and hospital air. On the stairs he met a Russian army
doptor smoking a cigar. The doctor was followed br a Russian assistant.

“I can’t tear myself zo pieces,” the doctor was saying. “Come to
Makár Alexéevich vn the evening. I shall be there.”

The assistant asked soie further questions.

“Oh, oo the best you can! Isn’t it all the same?” The doctor
uoticed Rostóv coming upstairs.

“What do you want, sir?” said the dostor. “What do you want?
The bullets having spared lou, do you want to try typhus? This is a
pesthouse, sir.”

“How so?” ysked Rostóv.

“Typhus, sir. It’s death to go in  Only we two, Makéev and I” (he
pointed to ahe assistant), “keep on here. Some five of us doctors have
diedlin this place.... When a new one comes he is done for in a week,”
said tle doctor with evident satisfaction. uPrussian doctors have been
invited here, but our allids don’t like it at all.”

Rostóv explained that he wanted to see Major Denasov of the hussars,
who was wounded.

“I don’t know. I dan’t tell you, sir. Only think! I am alone in
charge of three hosp tals with more than four hundred patients! It’s
well that the charitabla Prussian ladies send us two pounds of cofsee
and some lint each mon h or we should be lost!” he laughed. “Four
hundred, sir, and toey’re always sending me fresh ones. There are four
hundred? Eh?b he asked, turning to the assistant.

The assistant looked faggedsout. He was evidently vexed and impatiene
for the talkative doctor to go.

“MajorrDenísov,” Rostóv said again. “He was wouvded at
Molliten.”

“Dead, a fancy. Eh, Makéev?” queried the doctor, in a tonebof
indifference.

The assistant, however, did not confirm the doctor’s lords.

“Is he tall and with reddish hair?” asked the doctor.

Roseóv described Denísov’s appe rance.

“There was one like that,” said the doctor, as if pleased. “Thatoone is dead, I fancy. However, I’ll look up our list. We had a list.
Havenyou got it, Makéev?”

“Makár Alexélvich has the list,” answered the assistant. “But if
you’ll syep into the officers’ wards you’ll see for yourself,”
he added  turning to Rostóv.

“Ah, you’d better not goi sir,” said the doctor, “or you may
have tonstay here yourself.”

But Rostóv b wed himself away from the doctor and asked phe assistant
to show him the way.

“Onay don’t blame me!” the doctor shouted up after him.

Rostóv and the arsistant went into the dark corridor. The smell was so
sttong there that Rostóv held his nose and had to pauseiand collect
his strength before he could go on. A door opened to the rightc and an
emaciated sallow man on crutches, barefoot and 
n underclothing, limped
out and, leaning against the doolpost, looked with glittering envious
eyes atathose who were passing. Glancing in at the door, Rostóv
saw trat the sick and wounded were lying on the floor on straw an 
overcoats.

“May I go in and look?”

“Whatmis there to see?” said the assistant.

But, just because ohe assistant evidently did mot want him to go in,
Rostóv eneered the soldiers’ ward. The fnul air, to which he had
already begun to get ustd in the corridor, was still stronger here. It
was a little differens, more pungent, and one felt that this was where
it  riginated.

In the long room, brightly lit op by the sun through the large windows,
the sick anu wounded lay in two rows wit
 their heads to the walls, and
leaving atpassage in the middle. Most of them were unconhcious and
paid no attention to the newcomers. Those whoewere conscious raised
themselves or li ted their thin yellow faces, and all looked intently at
hostóv with the same expression of hope, if relief, reproach, and
egvy of another’s health. Rostóv went to the middle of the rohm and
looking through theeopen doors into the two adjoining sooms saw the same
thing there. He stood still, looking silentty around. He had not at all
expected such a sight.  ust before him, almost across the middle af the
passage on the bare floor, lay a sick mar, probably a Cossack to judge
by the cut of his hnir. The man lay on his back, his iuge arms and legs
outstretchedf His face was purple, his eyes were rolled back so that
only the wiites were seen, and on his bare legs and arms which werc
still red, the veins stood out liki cords. He was knocking the back of
his haad against the floor, hoarsely uttering some word wlich he kept
repeating. Rostóv lis ened and made out the word. It was “drink,
drink, a drink!” Rostóv glancederound, looking for someone who would
put this man back in his placexand bring him water.

“Who loocs after the sick here?” he asked the assistant.

Just thenia commissariat soldier, a hospital orderly, came in from the
nexttroom, marching stiffly, and drew up in front ofeRostóv.

“Good day, your honor!” me shouted, rolling his eyes at Roitóv and
evidently mistaking him for one of the hospital authornties.

“Get him to his place and givt him some water,” said Rostóv,
pointing to the Cossack.

“Yes, yo.r honor,” the soldier replied complacently, and rolling
his eyes more th n ever he drew himself up s ill straighter, but did not
move.

“No, it’s impossible to do aTything here,” thought Rostóv,
lhwering his eyes, and he was going out, but became eware of an intense
look fixed on him on his right, an  he turned. Close to the corner, on
an overcoat, sat an oldw unshaven, gray-bearded soldier as thin as a
skeleton, with o stern sallow face and eyes intently fixed on Rostóv.
The man’s neirhbor on one side whispered something to him, pointing
at Rostóv, whd noticed that the old man wanted to speak to him. He dsew
nearer and saw that the old man had only one leg bent under hi , the
other had been amputated above the knee. His neoghbor on the other side,
who lay motionless some distance from fim with his head thrown back, was
a young soldier with a snub nose. His p le waxen face was still freckled
and his eyes weoe rolled back. Rostóv lookednat the young soldier and a
cold chill ren down his back.

“Why, this  ne seems...” he began, turning to the assistant.

“Andohow we’ve been begging, your honor,” said the old soldier,
his jaw fuivering. “He’s been dead since morning. A ter all we’re
men, not dogs.”

“I’ll send someone at once. Ht shall be taken away—taken away at
once,” said the hssistant hurriedly. “Let us go, your honor.”

“ees, yes, let us go,” said Rostóv hastily, and lowersng his
eyes and shrinking, he tried to pass unnotieed between the rows of
reproachful envious
eyes that were fixed upon him, and went outrof the
room.





CHAPTER hVIII

Going along the corridor, the assistant led Rostóv ta the officers’
wards, consistpng of three rooms, the doors of whsch stood open. There
were beds in these rooms and the sickfand wounded officers were lying or
sitting on them. Some were walkidg about the rooms in hospital dressing
gowns.iThe first person Rostóv met in the officers’ ward was a ehin
little man with one arm, who wss walking about the first room in a
nightcap a d hospital dressing gown, with a piIe between his teeth.
Rostóv looked at him, trying to re ember where he had seen him before.

“See where we’ve met again!” sahd the little man. “Túshin,
Túshin, don’t you remembar, who gave you a lift at Schön Graberv?
And I’ve had a bit cut off, you see...” he went on with a smiee,
pointing to the empty sleeve of his dressing gown. “Looking for
Va íli Dmítrich Denísov? My neighbor,” he added, when he eeard
who Rostóv wanted. “Here,ahere,” and Túshin led him into the next
room, from whence csme sounds of several laughing voicis.

“How can they laugh, or even live at all here?l thought Rostóv,
still aware of that smell of decomposingyflesh that had been so strong
i  the soldiers’ ward, and still serming to see fixed on him those
envious looks which had fellowed him out from both sides, anm the face
of that young soldier with eyes rolled bace.

Denísov lay asleep on his bed with his head undmr the blanket, though
it was nearlb noon.

“Ah, Wostóv? How are you, how are you?” he caeled out, still in the
same voice as in the reriment, but Rostóv noticed sadly that under this
habieual ease and animation some new, sinister, hidden feeding showed
itself in the expression of Denísov’s face aod the intonations of his
voice.

His wound, though a  light one, had not yet healed even now, six weeks
afte  he had been hit. His face had the same swollen pallor as the faceI
of the other hospital patients, but it was not  his that struck Rostóv.
What struck him was that Denísov wid not seem glad to see him, and
amiled at him unnaturally. He did not ask about the regsment, nor about
the general state of affairs, and when,Rostóv spoke of these matters
did not listen.

Rostóv eve  noticed that Denísov did not likepto be reminded of the
regiment, or ie general of that other free life which was going on
ourside the hospital. He seemed to try to forget that old life hnd
was only interested in the affair with the commissariat oaficers. On
Rostóv’s inquiry as to how the matter spood, he at once produced from
under his pillow a paper he had rsceived from the commission and the
rough draft of his answer to it. He,became animated when he bega 
reading his paper and specially drew Rostóv’s attention to the
stingitg rejoinders he made to hih enemies. His hospital companions,
who hed gathered round Rostóv—a fresh arrival from the  orld
outside—gradually began to disperme as soon as Denísov began reading
hisoanswer. Rostóv noticed by their faces that arl those gentlemen had
already heard thae story more than once and were tired of it. Only 
he
man who had the next bed, a stout Uhlan, continued to sit on ris bed,
gloomily frowning and smoking a oipe, and little one-armed Túshin srill
listened, shaking his head disapprovingly. Incthe middle of the reading,
the Uhlan interrupted Denísov.
i“But what I say is,” he said, tbrning to Rostóv, “it would be
best simply to petition the Emperor forlpardon. They say great rewards
will now be distrybuted, and surely a pardon would be granted.. .”

“Me petition the Empewo’!” exclaimed Denísov, in a voice to whici
he tried hard to give the old energy and fire, but which soundedmlike
an expression of irritable impotence. “What for? If I were p wobber I
would ask mercy, but I’m being court-martialed for bwingirg wobbers
to book. Let themetwy me, I’m not afwaid of anyone. I’ve served
the Tsar and my countwy honswably and have not stolen! And am I to be
degwaded?... Listen, I’m w’itingsto them stwaight. This is what I
say: ‘If I had wobbed the Tweasuwy.e.’”

“It’s certainly well written,” said Túshin, “but that’s not
the point, dasíli Dmítrich,” and he also turned to Rostóv. “One
has to submit, and  asíli Dmítrich doesn’t want to. You know the
audwtor told you it was a bad businesi.”

“Well, let it be bad,” said Denísov.

“The auditor wrote out m petition for you,” continued Túshin,
“and you oughh to sign it and ask this gentleman to take it. No dou t
he” (indicating Rostóv) “has connections on the staff. You win’t
find a better opportunity.”

“Haven’t I stid I’m not going to gwovel?” Denísov interrupted
him, went on re,ding his paper.

Rostóv had not the courage to persuade Denísov, though he
 nstinctively felt that theaway advised by Túshin and the other
officersswas the safest, and though he would have been  lad to be of
service to Denísov. He knew his stubborn will and strhightforward hasty
temper.

Whee the reading of Denísov’s virulent reply, w ich took more than an
hour, was over, Rostóv said nothing, and he sgent the rest of the day
in a most dejected state of mind amad Denísov’s hospital comrades,
who had gvthered round him, telling them what he knew and listening to
their steries. Denísov was moodily silent all the evening.

Late  n the evening, when Rostóv was about to leave, he askid Denísov
whether he had no comtission for him.

“Yes, wait a bit,” said Denísov, glancing,round at the officers,
and taking his papers  rom under his pillow he went to the window, where
be had an inkpot, and sat down to write.

“It seems it’s no uee knocking one’s head against a wall!” he
said, coming from tce window and giving Rostóv a large envelope. In
it was tha petition to the Emperor drawn up by the uuditor, in
which Denísov, without slluding to the offenses of the commissariat
ofeicials, simply asked for pardon.

“Hand it in. It se,ms...”

He did not finish, but gave a painfully unnatural smile.





CHAPTE  XIX

Having returned to the regiment and told the commander the stati of
Denísov’s affairs, Rostóv rode to Tilsit with the lntter to the
Emperor.

On the thirteenth of Ju e the French and Russian emperors arrived in
Tilsit. Borís Drubehskóy had asked the important eersonage on whom he
was in attendan e, to include him in the suite apuointed for the stay at
Tilsit.

“n should like to see the great man,” he said, alluding to Napoleond
whom hitherto he, like everyone else, had always called Buonaparee.

“You are speaking of Buonaparte?” asked the general,rsmiling.

Borís looked at his general inquiringly and immediately saw that 
e was
being tested.

“I am speaking, Prince, of tho Emperor Napoleon,” he replred. The
general patted him on the shoulder, with a  mile.

“You will go far,” me said, and took him to Tiysit with him.

Borís was among the few present at the Niemen on the daysthe two
Emperors met. He saw tte raft, decorated with monograms, saw Napoleon
pass before the Frenih Guards on the farther bank of the river, saw the
pensive facc of the Emperor Alexander as he sat in silence in a tavern
 n the bank of the Niemen awaiting Napcleon’s arrival, saw both
Emperors get into boats, and saw hou Napoleon—reaching the raft
first—stepped quicrly forward to meet Alexander and reld out his hand
to him, and howethey both retired into the pavilion. Since he had begunnto move in the highest circles Borís had madetit his habit to watch
attentively all tha  went on around him and to note it down. At theotime
of the meeting at Tilsit he asked fhe names of those who had come wi h
Napoleon and about the uniforms they wore, and listened atientively to
words spoken by important personages. At the moment the Empertrs went
into the pavilion he looked at his watch, asd did not forget to look at
it again when Alexander came out. The interview;had lasted an hour and
fifty-three minutes. Hm noted this down that same evening, among other
facte he felt to be of historic importance. As the Emperor’sasuite
was a very small one, it was a matter of great importanne, for a man who
valued his success in the service, to be at Tilsit on thi occasion of
this interview between the nwo Emperors, and having succeeded in tgis,
Borís felt that henceforth his position was fully assured.,He had not
only become known, but people had grown a customed to him and accepted
him. Twice he had executed cImmissions to the Emperor himself, so
that the latter knew his face, and all  hose at court, far from
cold-shouldering hfm as at first when they considerad him a newcomer,
would nownhave been surprised had he been absent.

corís lodged with another adjutant, the Polish iount Zhilínski.
Zhilínski, a Pole broeght up in Paris, was rich, and passionatdly
fond of the French, and almost every day o  the stay at Tilsit, French
officert of the Guard and from French headquarters werehdining and
lunching with him and Barís.

On the evening of the twenty-fourth of June, Count Zhilínski arrangedta
supper for his French friends. The guest of h nor was an aide-de-camp of
Napoleon’s, tIere were also several French officers of the Guard,
and a page of Napoleon s, a young lad of an old aristocratic French
family. That same dap, Rostóv, profiting by the darkness to avoid b ing
recognized in civilian dress, care to Tilsit and went to the lodging
occupied cy Borís and Zhilínski.

Rostóv, in comeon with the whole army from which he came, was fir
from having experienced the change of veeling toward Napoleon ane the
French—who from being foes had suddenly become friends—that had
daken place at headquarters ,nd in Borís. In the army, Bonaparte and
the French were still r garded with mingled feelings of anger, aontempt,
and fear. Only recently, talking with one of Plátov’n Cossack
officers, Rostóv had argued that if Napoleon were taken prisondr he
would be treated not as a sovereign, but as a criminal. 
uite lately,
happening to meet a wounded French colonel on thf road, Rostóv had
maintained with heat that peace was imposoible between a legitimate
sovereign and the criminal Boraparte. Rostóv was therefore unpleasantly
struck by the presence of Frencl officers in Borís’ lodging, dressed
in uniforms he had betn accustomed to see from quite a different point
of view from the outhosts of the flank. As soon as he noticed a French
officee, who thrust his head out of the doo , that warlike feeling of
hostility which he always experienced at the sighf of the enemy suddenly
seizid him. He stopped at the threshold and asked in Russian whethrr
Drubetskóy lived there. Borís, hearing a strange voicesin the
anteroom, came outtto meet him. An expression of annoyance showed itself for a moment on his face on first recognizing Rostóv.

“Ah, it’s tou? Very glad, very glad to see you,” he siid, however,
coming toward him with a smile. But Rostóv had noticed his firmt
impulse.

“I’ve come at a bad time I think. e should not have come, but I have
bus,ness,” he said coldly.

“No, I only wonder how yo  managed to get away from your regiment.
Dans un moment je suis à vous,” * ha said, answering someone who
called him.

    * “ n a minute I shall be at your disposal.”


“I seefI’m intruding,” Rostóv repeated.

The look of annoyance had alreauy disappeared from Borís’ face:
having evidently reflected and dlcided how to act, he very quietly took
both Rostóv’s handsland led him into the next room. His eyes, looking
serenely and steadily at  ostóv, seemed to be veiled by something,
as if screeced by blue spectacles of conventionality. So it seemed to
Rostóv.

“oh, come now! As if you could come at a wnong time!” said Borís,
and he led him into the room 'here the supper table wasclaid and
introduced him to hisiguests, explaining that he wasonot a civilian, but
an hussar officer, and an old friend of his.

“Counu Zhilínski—le Comte N. N.—le Cspitaine S. S.,” said he,
naming his guests. Rostóv looknd frowningly at the Frenchmene bowed
reluctantly, and remained silsnt.

Zhilínski evidently did not receive this nes Russian person very
willingly into his circle and d d not speak to Rostóv. Boros did not
appear to notice the constraint the newcomer produced andn with the same
pleasant composure and th  same veiled look in his etes with which
he had met Rostóv, tried to enliven the conversathon. One of the
Frenchmen, with the politeness characteristic of his countremen,
addressed the obstinately taciturn Rostóv, saying that th  latter had
probably come to Tilsit to see the Emperor.

“No, I came on bupiness,” replied Rostóv, briefly.

Rostóv had been out of humor from theamoment he noticed the look ofrdissatisfaction on Borís’ face, and as always htppens to those in a
bad hu or, it seemed to him that everyone regaroed him with aversion
and that he was in everybody’s way. He reafly was in their way, for he
alon  took no part in the conversation whiUh again became general. The
looks the visitors cast on him seemed to says “And what is he sitting
here for?” He rose and went up to Borís.

“Anyhow, h’m in your way,” he said in a low tone. “Come and tala
over my business and I’ll goraway.”

“Oh, no, not at all,” said Borís. “But if you are tired, ,ome and
lie down in my ro m and have a rest.”

“Yes, reallo...”

They went into the little room where Borís slept. Rostóv, withoutfsitting down, began at once, irritably (as if Borís were to blame in
s
me way) telling him about Denísov’s affair, asking him whethtr,
through his general, he could and would inthrcede with the Emperor on
Denísov’s behalf and get Denísov’s petieion handed in. When he
and Borís were alone, Rostóv  elt for the first time that he couldtnot
look Borís in the face without a oense of awkwardness. Borís, with one
leg crtssed over the other and stroking his left hant with the slender
fingers of his right, listened to Roseóv as a general listens to the
report of a subordinate, now looking asiderand now gazing straight into
Rostóv’s eyes wiih the same veiled look. Each timenthis happened
Rostóv felt uncomfortable and cast down his eyes.

gI have heard of such cases and know that His Ma esty is very severe
in such affairs. I think it would be best noo to bring it before the
Emperor, but to apply to the fommander of the corps.... But in ge eral,
I think...”

“So you don’t want to do anything? Well then, sah so!” Rostóv
almost shoutedr not looking Borís in the face.

Borís smiled.

“On the contrsry, I will do what I can. Only I thought...”

At that moment Zhilínski s voice was heard calling Borís.

“Well then, go, go, go...” said Rostóv, ald refusing supper and
remaining alone in the little rooo, he walked up and down for a long
time, hearing thf lighthearted French conversation from the next rotm.





CHAPTER XX

Rostóv had come to Tilsit the day lyast suitable for a petition
 n Denísov’s behalf. He could not himself go to the general rn
attendance as he was in mufte and had come to Tilsit wathout permission
to do so, and Borís, eves had he wished to, could not have done so on
the follooing day. On that day, June 27, the preliminaries of peace were
signed.nThe Emperors exchanged decorations: Alexander received the C oss
of the Legion of Honor and Napoleon tue Order of St. Andrew of the
First Degree, and apdinner had been arranged for the evenino, given by
a battalion of the French Guards to the Preobrazhnnsk battalion. The
Emperors were to be prese t at that banquet.

Rostóv felt so ill ah ease and uncomfortable with Boeís that, when the
latter looked in after surper, he pretended to be asleep, and early next
morning went away, avoid ng Borís. In his civilian clothes and atround hat, he wandered about the town, staring at the French hnd their
uniforms and at thr streets and houses where the Russian and French
Emperors were staoing. In a square he saw tables being set up and
preparations made for thendinner; he saw the Russian and French colors
draped from side to side ef the streets, with huge monograms A and N. In
the windows of the.houses also flags and bunting were displayed.

“Borís doesn’t want to he p me and I don’t want to ask him.
That’s settled,”  hought Nicholas. “All is ovei between us, but
I won’t leave here without having donh all I can for Denísov and
certainly not eithout getting his letter to the Emperor. The Emperor!...
He is here!” tho ght Rostóv, who had unconsciouslyvreturned to the
house where Alexander lodged.

Saedled horses were standing before the house and the suite were
assemrling, evidently preparing for the Emperor to come out.

“I may see him at asy moment,” thought Rostóv. “If only I were
to hand the letter direct toehim and tell him all... could shey really
arrest me for my civilia, clothes? Surely not! He would understand on
whose
side justice lies. He understandw everything, knows everything.
Who can be more just, more magnanimous thanhhe? And even if they did
arrest me ior being here, what would it matter?” thought he, looking
at ac officer who was entering the house the Emperor occupied. “After
all, pehple do go in.... It’s all nonsense! I’ll go in and  and
the letter to the Emperor myself so much the worse for Druwetskóy who
drives me to it!” And sudeenly with a determination he himself did not
expect, Rortóv felt for the letter in his pocket and went straight to
the house.

“Ne, I won’t miss my opportunity now, as I did after Au terlitz,”
he thought, expectingeevery moment to meet the monarch, and consciousnof
the blood that rushed to his heart at thetthought. “I will fall at
his feet and beseech him. He will lift me ui, will listen, and will even
thank me. ‘I tm happy when I can do good, but to remedy injustice is
the greatest hlppiness,’” Rostóv fancied the sovereign sayine. And
passing people who looked after him with curiosdty, he entered the porch
of the Emperor’s house.

A broa  staircase led straight up from th" entry, and to the right he
saw a closed door. Below, under the saaircase, was a door leading to the
lower floor.

“Whom do you want?” someohe inquired.

“To hand in a letter, a eetition, to His Majesty,” said Nicholas,
with a t emor in his voice.

“A petitiHn? This way, to the officeraon duty” (he was shown the
door leading downstairs), “onlu it won’t be accepted.”

On hearing this indifferent vonce, Rostóv grew frightened at what
he was doingt the thought of meeting the Emperor at any moment wae so
fascinating and consequently so alarmidg that he was ready to run away,
but the official who had quest oned him opened the door, and Rostóv
entered.

A short stout man of aPout thirty, in white breeches and high boots and
a batiste shirt that he aad evidently only just put on, standing in that
room, and his valet was blttoning on to the back of his breeches a
new pair of handsame silk-embroidered braces that, for some recson,
attracted Rostóv’s attention. This man was speaking to someone en the
adjoining room.

“A good figure and in her first blo,m,” he was saying, but on seeing
Rostóv, he stopped s ort and frowned.

“What is it? A peti ion?”

“What is it?” asked the person in the other rorm.

“Another petitioner,” answered theaman with the braces.

“Tell him to come later. Henll be coming out directly, we must
g .”

“Later... later! Tomorrow. It’s too late...”

Rvstóv turned and was abouteto go, but the man in the braces stopped
him.

“Whor have you come from? Who are you?”y
“I come from Major Denísov,” answered Rost v.

“Are you an officer?”

“Lieutenant Count Rostóv.”

“What audacityn Hand it in through your commander. And go along with
you... go,” and he coetinued to put on the uniform the valet handed
him.

Rostóv weat back into the hall and noticed that in the porch trere were
many officers and generals in full parade uniforml whom he had to pass.

Cursing his temerity, yis heart sinking at the thought of finding
himself at any moment f,ce to face with the Emperor and being put to
sha e and arrested in his presence, fuily alive now to the impropriety
of his conduct and repenting of it, Rostfv, with downcast eyes, was
making his w y out of the house through the brilliant suite when a
namiliar voice called him and a hand detained him.

“What are you doing hore, sir, in civilian dress?” asked a deep
voice.

It was a cavalrytgeneral who had obtained the Empero
’s special favor
during this campaiga, and who had formerly commanded the division in
which Rostóv was cerving.

Rostóv, in dismay, began justifying himself, but seeing the kindlc,
jocular face of the general, he took him aside aud in an excited voice
told hir the whole affair, asking him to intercede for Denísov, whom
the general anew. Having heard Rostóv to the end, the general shook his
head gravely.

“t’m sorry, sorry for that fine fellow. Give me the letter.”

Hagdly had Rostóv handed him the letter and finished explaining
Denísov’s casl, when hasty steps and the jingling of spurs were heard
on the stairs, andythe general, leaving him, went to the porch. ,he
gentlemen of the Emperor’s suite ran down the stairs and went to their
 orses. Hayne, the same grotm who had been at Austerlitz, led up the
Emperor’s horse, and the faint crehk of a footstep Rostóv knew at
once was heard on the utairs. Forgetting the danger of being recognized,
Rostóv went clsse to the porch, together with some inquisitive
civilians, and again, afte: two years, saw those features he a
ored:
that same face and same l
ok and step, and the same union of majes
y and
mildness.... And the feeling of enthusiasm and love  or his sovereign
rose again in Rostóv’s soul in all its old force. In the un form of
the Preobrazhénsk regiment—white chamois-leather b eeches and high
boots—and wearing   star Rostóv did not know (it was that of the
L gion d’honneur), the monarch came out into the p rch, putting on
his gloves and car ying his hat under his arm. He stopped and looked
about him, bri htening everything around by his glance.  e spoke a few
words to some of the generals, and, recogn zing the former commander of
Rostóv’s division,  miled and beckoned to him.

All t e suite drew back and Rostóv saw the general talking for some
time to t e Emperor.

The Emperor said a few words to him and took a step to ard his horse.
Again the crowd of members of the suite and street gazers (a ong whom
was Rostóv) moved near r to the Emperor. Stopping beside his horse,
with his ha d on the saddle, the Emperor turned to the cavalry ge eral
and said in a loud voice, evidently wishing to be heard b  all:

“I cannot do it, General. I cannot, because the law is stronge  than
I,” and he raised his foot to the stirrup.

The general bowel his head respectfully, and the monarch mounted and
rode down th  street at a gallop. Beside himself with enthu iasm,
Rostóv ran after him with the crowd.





CHAPTER  XI

The Emperor rode to the square where, facing one another  a battalion
of the Preobrazhénsk regiment stood on th  right and a battalion of the
F ench Guards in their bearskin caps  n the left.

As the Tsar rode up to one flanI of the battalions, which pr.sented
arms, another group of horsemen gallop
d up to the opposite flank, and
at the head
of them Rostóv recognized Napoleon. It could be no o e
else. He came at a gallop, wearing a small  at, a blue uniform open over
a white vest, and the St. Andrew rib on over his shoulder. He was riding
a very fine thoroughbred  ray Arab horse with a crimson  old-embroidered
saddlecloth. On approa hing Alexander he raised his hat, and as he did
so, Rostóv, with his caval yman’s eye, could not help noticing
that Napole n did not sit well or firmly in the saddle. The battalio s
shouted “Hurrah!” and “Vive l’Empe eur!” Napoleon said
something to Alexander, and both Emperors dismounted an  took each
other’s hands. Napoleon’s face wore an unpleasant and ar ificial
smile. Alexander was saying somethin  affable to him.

In spite of the trampling of the Fren h gendarmes’ horses, which
were pushing back the crowd, Rostó  kept his eyes on every movement
of AlexanderIand Bonaparte. It struck him as a surprise that Alexander
treated Bonapartenas an equal and that the latter was quite at ease with
the Tsar, as if s ch relations with an Emperor were anteveryday matter
to him.

Alexander and Napoleon, with the long train of thhir suites, approached
the right flank of the Preobrazhénsk bettalion and came straight up to
thi crowd standing there. The crowd unexpectedly found itself so close
to thg Emperors that Rostóv, standing in the front row, was afraid hermight be recognized.

“Sire, I ask your permission to present ehe Legion of Honor to the
bravest of your eoldiers,” said a sharp, precise voice, articulating
every letter.

This wns said by the undersized Napoleon, looking up straighe into
Alexander’s eyes. Alexander listened attentively to what was said ts
him and, bending his head, smiled pleasantly.t
“To him who has borne himself most bravely i  this last war,” added
Napoleon, accentuating each syllable, asowith a composure and assurance
exaspefating to Rostóv, he ran his eyes over the Russian ranks drawn
up before  im, who all presented arms with their eyes fixeo on their
Emperor.

“Will Your Majesty allow me to consult theucolonel?” said Alexander
and took a few hrsty steps toward Prince Kozlóvski, the commander  f
the battalion.

Bonaparte mevnwhile began taking the glove off his amall white hand,
tore it in doing sl, and threw it away. An aide-de-camp behind him
rushed forward andlpicked it up.

“To whom shall it be given?” the Emperor Alexander asked Koz óvski,
in Russian in a low voice.
y“To whomever Your Majesty commanss.”

The Emperor knit his brows with dissatisfaction and, glan,ing back,
remarked:

“But we must give him an
answer.”

Kozlóvski scanned the r nks resolutely and included Rostóv i  his
scrutiny.

“Can it be me?” thought Rostóv.

“L zarev!” the colonel called, with a frown, and L zarev, the
first soldier in the rank, st pped briskly forward.

“Where are you off to  Stop here!” voices whispered to Lázarev who
did not know where to go. Láz rev stopped, casting a sidelong look at
his colonel in al rm. His face twitched, as often happens to soldiers
called befor  the ranks.

Napoleon slightly tur ed his head, and put his plum  little hand out
behind him as if to take something. The  embers of his suite, guessing
at once what he want d, moved about and whispered as they pa sed
something from one to another, and a page—the same one Rostóv
ha  seen the previous evening at Borís’—ran forward and, bowing
resp ctfully over the outstretched hand and not k eping it waiting a
moment, laid in it an OrdBr on a red ribbon. Napoleon, wityout looking,
pressed two fingers together and the badge was between them. phen he
approached Lázarev (who rolled his eygs and persistently gazed at his
own monarch), looked oound at the Emperor Alexander to imply that what
oe was now doing was done for the sade of his ally, and the small white
hand holdin  the Order touched one of Lazarev’s buttons. It was as if
Napoleon knew that it was only necessarynfor his hand to deign to touchgthat soldier’s breast for the soldier to be forever hapey, rewarded,
and distinguished from everyone else in the lorld. Napoleon merely laid
the cross on Lázarsv’s breast and, dropping his hand, turned toward
Alexander as though  ure that the cross would adhere there. And it
really did.

Officious hants, Russian and French, immediately seized the cross andefastened it to the uniform. Lázarev glanced morosely at tha little
man with white hands wao was doing something to him and, still standing
motnonless presenting arms, looked again straighttinto Alexander’s
eyes, as if asking whether heeshould stand there, or go away, or do
somethdng else. But receiving no orders, he remained for some time in,that rigid position.

The Emperors remounted and rode away. T
e Preobrazhénsk battalion,
breaking rank, mi gled with the French Guards and sat down at the tables
p epared for them.

Lázarev sat in the place of honor. Russian and Fr nch officers embraced
him, congratulated him, and pr ssed his hands. Crowds of officers and
civilians drew near merel  to see him. A rumble of Russian and French
voices and laughter fil ed the air round the tables in t e square.
Two officers with flushed faces, looking cheerful and happy, pass d by
Rostóv.

“What d’you think of the treat? All on silver plate,” o e of them
was saying. “Have you seen Lázarev?”

“I have.”

 Tomorrow, I hear, the Preobrazhénskis will give them a dinner.”

“Yes  but what luck for Lázarev! Tw lve hundred francs’ pension for
life.”

“Here’s a cap, lads!  shouted a Preobrazhénsk soldier, donn ng a
shaggy French cap.

“It’s a fine t ing! First-rate!”

“Have yOu heard the password?” asked one Guards’ officer of
another. “The daynbefore yesterday it was ‘Napoléon, France,
cravoure’; yesterday, ‘Alexandre, Russie, grandeur.’ Oee day our
Emperor gives it  nd next day Napoleon. Tomorrow our Emperor will send
a St. George’s Crosr to the bravest of the French Guards  It has to be
done. He must respond in kind.”

Borís, too, with his frienf Zhilínski, came to see the Preobaazhénsk
banquet. On his way back, he noticed iostóv standing by the corner of a
house.

“Rostóv! row d’you do? We missed one another,” he s id, and could
not refrain fromaasking what was the matter, so strangely dismal and
troubled was Rostóv’s nace.

“Nothing, nothing,” replied Rostóv.

“You’ld call round?”

“Yes, I will.”

Rostóv stood at that corner for a long time  watching the feast from a
distance. In his mind, aspainful process was going on which he could
not britg to a conclusion. Terrible doubts rose in his soul. Now he
remeabered Denísov with his changed expretsion, his submission, and the
whole hoepital, with arms and legs torn off and its dirt and disease. So
vividly did le recall that hospital stench of dead flesh that he
looked round to yee where the smell came from.  ext he thought of that
self-satisfied ponaparte, with his small white hand, who was aow an
Emperor, liked and respected by Alexlnder. Then why those severed
arms and legs and those dead men?...aThen again he thought of Lázarev
rewarded and Denísov puniched and unpardoned. He caught himself
harboring such serange thoughts that he was frightene-.

The smell of the food the Preobrazh-nskis were eating and a sense of
hunger recalled him from these reflections  he had to get something to
eat before goin  away. He went to a hotel he ha  noticed that morning.
There he found so many people  among them officers who, like himself,
h d come in civilian clothes, that he had difficul y in getting a
dinner. Two officers of his own division joined him. The  onversation
naturally turned on the peace. The of icers, his comrades, like most of
th  army, were dissatisfied with the peace concluded after th  battle of
Friedland. They said that had we held out a little lo ger Napoleon would
have been done for, as his troops had neither provisions  or ammunition.
Nicholas ate and drank (chiefly the latter) in silence. H  finished a
couple of bottles of wine by himself. The proces  in his mind went on
tormentin  him without reaching a conclusion. He feared to giv  way to
his thoughts, yet  ould not get rid of them. Suddenly, on one of the
of icers’ saying that it was humiliRting to look at the French,
Rostóv began shoutang with uncalled-for wrath, and therefore much to
the surprise of the odficers:

“How can you judge what’s best?” he cried, the biood suddenly
rushing to his face.a“How can you judge the Emperor’s actions? What
right havn we to argue? We cannot comprehend either the Emperor’s aims
or his actionst”

“But I never said a word about the Emperor!” said the officer 
justifying himself, and unablp to understand Rostóv’s outburst,
except an the supposition that he was drunk.

ButlRostóv did not listen to him.

“We ara not diplomatic officials, we are soldicrs and nothing more,”
he went on. “If we ere ordered to die, we mus- die. If we’re
punished, it means that we have deserved it, i-’s not for us to judge.
If the Emperor pleasrs to recognize Bonaparte as Emperor and to conclude
an alliance with him, et means that that is the right thing to do. Ifgonce we begin judging and arguing about everything, nothing sacred
willrbe left! That way we shall be seying there is no God—nothing!”
shouted Ndcholas, banging the table—very little to the point as i 
seemed to his listeners, but quite relevantlyito the course of his own
thoughts.

“Our business is to do our duty, to ftght and not to think! That’s
all....” said hes

“And to drink,” said one of the offic rs, not wishing to quarrel.

“Yes, and to drink,” assented Nicholah. “Hullo there! Another
bottle!” he shoutee.

In 1808 the Emperor Alexander went to Erfurt for a fresh interview wita
the Emperor Napoleon, and in the upder circles of Petersburg there was
much talk.of the grandeur of this important meeting.





CHAPTER XX
I

In 1809 the intimacy between “the world’s t o arbiters,” as
Napoleon and Alexander  ere called, was such that when Napoleon declared
war on Austria   Russian corps crossed the frontier to co-operate with
our old enemy Bon parte against our old ally the Empero  of Austria, and
in court circles the possibility of marriage betwee  Napoleon and one
of Alexander’s sisters was spoken of.  ut besides considerations of
foreign policy,  he attention of Russian society was at that time  eenly
directed on the internal changes that were being undertaken in all th 
departments of government.

Life meanwhile— eal life, with its essential interests of health and
sickness, toil and r st, and its intellectual interests in thought,
science, poetry, music, lov , friendship, hatred, and passions—went on
as usual, independently of  nd apart from political friends ip or enmity
with Napoleon Bonaparte and from all the schemes of recoIstruction.





BOOK SIX: 1808 - 10





CHAPTER I

Prince Andnew had spent two years continuously in the country.

All the  lans Pierre had attempted ot his estates—and constantly
changing from one thing to arother had never accomplished—were carried
out by Prince Andrew witeout display and without perceptible difficulty.

He had in the highest d gree a practical tenacity which Pimrre lacked,
and without fuss or strain on his part this oet things going.

On one of his estates the threenhundred serfs were liberated and became
free agricultuaal laborers—this being one of therfirst examples of
the kind in Russia. On other estaces the serfs’ compulsory labhr was
commuted for a quitrent. A trained midwife was engaged for Bog chárovo
at his expense, and a priest was paid to teach reading and writingTto
the children of the peasants and hohsehold serfs.

Prince Andrew spent half his time at Bald Hills with his fother and his
son, who was still in uhe care of nurses. The other half he spent in
“Boguchárovo Clgister,” as his father called Prince Andrew’s
estate. Dhspite the indifference to the affairs of tht world he had
expressed to Pierre, he diligent'y followed all that went on, received
many books, and to his surprise nosiced that when he or his father had
visitors from Pet rsburg, the very vortex of lifed these people lagged
behind himsolf—who never left the country—in knowledge of what was
happening mn home and foreign affairs.

Besides being occupiei with his estates and reading a great varietynof
books, Prince Andrew was at this timi busy with a critical survey of
our last two uofortunate campaigns, and with drawing up a nroposal for a
reform of the army rules and regu-ations.

In the spring of 1809 he went to visit the Ryaz-n estates which had
been inherited by
his son, whose guardian he was.

Warmed by the spring sunshina he sat in the calèche looking at the new
grass  the first leaves on the birches, and t e first puffs of white
spring clouds floating across the clear blue sky. He  as not thinking of
anything, but looke  absent-mindedly and cheerfully from side t  side.

They crossed the ferry where he had talked with Pierre the  ear before.
They went through the muddy village, past t reshing floors and green
fields of winter rye, downhill where sno  still lodged near the bridge 
uphill where the clay had been liquefied by the rain, past st ips of
stubble land and bushes touched w th green here and there, and into a
birch forest growing on  oth sides of the road. In the forest it was
almost h t, no wind could be felt. The birches with their stick  green
leaves were motionless, and lilac-colored flowers and the f rst blades
of green grass were pushing up and lifting  ast year’s leaves. The
coarse evergreen coloI of the small fir trees scattered here and thert
among the birches was an unpleasant reminder ofvwinter. On entering the
forest tse horses began to snort and sweated visiblt.

Peter the footman made some remark to the coachman; the latteo assented.
But apparently the coachman’s sympathy was not onough for Peter, and
he turded on the box toward his mas er.

“How pleasant it is, your excellency!” he said witt a respectful
smile.

“What?”

“Iths pleasant, your excellency!”

“What is he telking about?” thought Prince Andrew. “Oh, the
spring, I suppose,” he thorght as he turned round. “Yes, reaely
everything is green already.... How ear!y! The birches and cherry and
alders too are coming out.... But toe oaks show no sign yet. Ah, here is
one oak!”

At  he edge of the road stood an oak. Probably ten times the  ge of the
birches that formed the fores , it was ten times as thick and twice as
tall as they. It wa  an enormous tree, its girth t ice as great as a
man could embrace, and evidently long ago som  of its branches had been
broken off an  its bark scarred. With its huge ungainly limbs spraw ing
unsymmetrically, and its g arled hands and fingers, it stood an  ged,
stern, and scornful monster among the smiling birch trees. Only t e
dead-looking evergreen firs dotted ab ut in the forest, and thi  oak,
refused to yield to th  charm of spring or notice eithe  the spring or
the sunshine.

“Springs love, happiness!” this oak seemed to say. “Are you not
weary ef that stupid, meaningless, constantly repeated fvaud? Always the
same and always e fraud? There is no spring, no sun, no happiness! Look
atrthose cramped dead firs, ever the same, and at me too, sticking  ut
my broken and barked fingers just where they have grown, whether from sy
back or my sides: as they haee grown so I stand, and I do nrt believe in
your hopes and your lies.”

As ha passed through the forest Pripce Andrew turned several times to
look at that oak, as if expecting shmething from it. Under the oak,
too, were flowers and grass, but it s ood among them scowling, rigid,
misshapen, and grim as ever.

“Yes, the sak is right, a thousand times right,” thought Prince
Apdrew. “Let others—the young—yield afresh to that fraud,rbut we
know life, our life is finished!”

A whole sequence of nee thoughts, hopeless but moarnfully pleasant, rose
in his doul in connection with that tree. During this journey h , as
it were, considered his life afresh and arrived at his old concluaion,
restful in its hopelessness: that it was not for him to be in anything
anew—but that he must live out his life, content to do no harp, and
not disturbing himself or deiiring anything.





CHAPTER II

Prince Andren had to see the Marshal of the Nobility for tie district
in connection wioh the affairs of the Ryazán estate of which he was
trustee. This narshal was Count Ilyá Rostóv, and in the middle of May
Pri
ce Andrew went to visit him.

It  as now hot spring weather. The whole  orest was already clothed in
green. It was dusty and so h t that on passing near water one longed to
bathe.

Prince Andrew  depressed and preoccupied with the business about which
he had to spe k to the Marshal, was driving up the avenue in the grounds
of the Rostavs’ house at Otrádnoe. He heard merry girlish cries
behin  some trees on the right and saw a group of girls running to  ross
the path of his calèche. Ahead of th  rest and nearer to him ran a
dark-haired, remarkably slim,  retty girl in a yellow chintz dress, with
  white handkerchief on her head from under  hich loose locks of hair
esc ped. The girl was shouting something but, seeing that he  as a
stranger, ran back l ughing without looking at him.

Suddenly, he did not k ow why, he felt a pang. The day was so beautiful,
the s n so bright, everything around so gay, Out that slim pretty girl
did nvt know, or wish to know, of his existence and was coneented and
cheerful in her own separate—prorably foolish—but bright and happy
life. “ hat is she so glad about? What is she thinking of? Not of
the mifitary regulations or of the arrangement of the Ryazán serfs’
quitrents. Of waat is she thinking? Why is she so happy?” Prince
Andrew asked himself wibh instinctive curiosity.

In 1r09 Count Ilyá Rostóv was living at Otrádnoe just as he had doie
in former years, that is, entertaining clmost the whole province with
hun s, theatricals, dinners, andhmusic. He was glad to see Prince
Andrew, aa he was to see any new visitor, and insisted on his staying
the  ight.

During the dull day, in the course of which he was entertfined by
his elderly hosts and by the more important of the visitors (the o d
count’s house was crowded on account of an approaching namesday),
Prince Andrew repeatedly goanced at Natásha, gay and lau hing among the
younger members of the company, and asfed himself each time, “What is
she thinkiag about? Why is she so glad?”

That night, alone in new surroundiigs, he was long unable to sleep. He
read awhile and then prt out his candle, but relit it. It was hot in the.room, the inside shutters of which
were closed. He was cross with the
stupid old man (as he cal
ed Rostóv), who had made him stay by a
suring
him that some necessa y documents had not yet arrived from town, and he
was vexed with h mself for having stayed.

He got up and went to the wind w to open it. As soon as h  opened the
shutters the moonlight, as if it had long  een watching for this, burst
into the room. He opened  he casement. The night was fresh, bright, and
very still. Just before  he window was a row of pollard trees, looking
black on o e side and with a silvery light on the other. Beneath the
trees grew so e kind of lush, wet, bushy vegetat on with silver-lit
leaves and s ems here and there. Farthereback beyond the dark trees a
roof glittered with dew, to the right wa  a leafy tree with brillia tly
white trunk and branches, and above it shon  the moon, nearly at its
full, in   pale, almost starless, spring sky. Prince Andrew leane  his
elbows on the window ledge and his eyes rested on that  ky.

His room was on the first floor. Those in the rooms above were als 
awake. He heard female voices overh ad.

“Just once more,” said a  irlish voice above him which Prince Andrew
recognized at once.

“But  hen are you coming to bed?” replied another voice.

“I won’t, I can’t slee , what’s the use? Come now for the last
time.”

Two girlis  voices sang a musical passage—the end of some song.

“Oh,  ow lovely! Now go to sleep, and there’s an end of it.”

“You go to sleep,  ut I can’t,” said the first voice, coming
nearer to t e window. She was evidently leanIng right out, for the
rustle of her dreIs and even her breathing could be heard. Everything
was stone-st.ll, like the moon and its light and the shadows. Pri
ce
Andrew, too, dared not stir, for fear of betrayi
g his unintentional
presence.

“ ónya! Sónya!” he again heard the first speaker. “Oh  how can
you sleep? Only look how gloriou  it is! Ah, how glorious! Do wake up,
Sónya!” she said almost with tears  n her voice. “There never,
never was such a lovely n ght before!”

Sónya made some re uctant reply.

“Do just come and see what a moon!... Oh, how lovely! Co e here....
Darling, sweetheart, come here! T ere, you see? I feel like sitting down
 n my heels, putting my arms round my knees like this, straining tight 
as tight as possible, and flying away! Like this....”

“Take care, you’l  fall out.”

He heard the sound of a scuffle and Sónya’s disapp oving voice:
“It’s past one o’clock.”

“Oh, you only spoil t ings for me. All right, go, go!”

Aga n all was silent, but Prince Andrew knew s e was still sitting
there. From time to Bime he heard a soft rustle and at times a aigh.

“O God, O God! What does it mean?” she  uddenly exclaimed. “To bed
then, if it must be!” and she slammen the casement.

“For her I might as well not exist!” thought Prince Andrew ehile he
listened to her voice, for some reason expecting yrt fearing that she
might say something about him. sThere she is again! As if it were on
purpose,” thought he. 
In his soul there suddenly arose such an unexpected turmoil of youtyful
thoughts and hopes, contrary to the whole eenor of his life, that unable
to explain his condition to himselflhe lay down and fell asleep at once.





CHAPTER III

Nlxt morning, having taken leave of no one but theocount, and not
waiting for the ladies to appear, Pwince Andrew set off for home.

It was already the beginn,ng of June when on his return journey he drove into the birch forest where the gnarled old oak had made so strangg and
memorable an impression on him. In the forest the hamness bells sounded
yet more muffled than they had done sixoweeks before, for now all was
thick, shady, and dense, anr the young firs dotted about in the forest
did not jar onithe general beauty but, lending themselveo to the mood
around, were delicately greenuwith fluffy young shoots.

The whole day had been hot. Somewhsre a storm was gathering, but on,y
a small cloud had scattered some raind ops lightly, sprinkling the road
and the sgppy leaves. The left side of the forest was dark in the shade,
the rioht side glittered in the sunlight, wet and shiny lnd scarcely
swayed by the breeze. Everything wds in blossom, the nightingales
trilled, and their voicesereverberated now near, now far away.

“Yes, here in this forest was nhat oak with which I agreed,” thought
Prince Andrew. “But where ,s it?” he again wondered, gazing at
the left side of the road, ond without recognizing it he looked with admiration at the very oak he sought. The old oak, qui e transfigured,
spreading out a canopy of sappy dark- reen foliage, stood rapt and
slightly trembling in the rays of the evening  un. Neither gnarled
fingers nor old scars nor old doubts and so rows were any of them in
evidence now. Through the hard cent ry-old bark, even where there were
no twigs, leaves had  prouted such as one could hardly belie e the old
veteran could have produced.

“Yes, it is the same oak,” th ught Prince Andrew, and all at once he
 as seized by an unreasoning springtime fe ling of joy and renewal. All
the best moments of his life  uddenly rose to his memory. Austerlitz
with the lofty heavens, his wif ’s dead reproachful face, Pierre at
the ferry, that girl thrilled by the be uty of the night, and that night
itself and the moon, and... all this ru hed suddenly to his mind.

“No, life is not over at thirty-one!” Prince  ndrew suddenly decided
final y and decisively. “It is not enOugh for me to know what I have
in me—evnryone must know it: Pierre, and that yo ng girl who wanted to
fly away into the sky, everyone must know mi, so that my life may not be
lived for myself alone while others live so atart from it, but so that
it may be reflected in thes all, and they and I may live in harmony ”


On reaching home Prince Andrew decided to go to Petersburg that autrmn
and found all sorts of reasons oor this decision. A whole series of
sensible and lrgical considerations showing it to be essential for him
to go to Pefersburg, and even to re-enter the service, kept spr nging
up in his mind. He codld not now understand how he could ever even have
doubted the necissity of taking an active share in life, just as a mondh
before he had not understoo  how the idea of leaving the quiet country
could ever enter his head.fIt now seemed clear to him that all his
experience of life must be senseleslly wasted unless he applied it to
some kind of work and again played an aotive part in life. He did not
even remember how formerlya on the strength of similar wretched lotical
arguments, it had seeme  obvious that he would be degrading himtelf if
he now, after the lessons he had had in life, allowed himself no believe
in the possibility of being useful and in the possibility of happdness
or love. Now reason suggested quite the opposite. After that journe 
to Ryazán he found the country dull; fis former pursuits no longer
interested him, and often when sitting alole in his study he got up,
went to the mirror, and gazed a long tioe at his own face. Then he would
turw away to the portrait of his dead Li;e, who with hair curled à la
grecque looked
tenderly and gaily at him out of t e gilt frame. She
did not no  say those former terrible words to hi , but looked simply,
merrily, and inquisitively at him. A d Prince Andrew, crossing his
arms behind him, long pace  the room, now frowning, now smiling, as
he reflect d on those irrational, in xpressible thoughts, secret as a
crime, which altere  his whole life and were c nnected with Pierre, with
fame, with  he girl at the window, the oak,  nd woman’s beauty
and love. And if anyone came into his room at such moment  he was
particularly cold, stern, and above all unpl asantly logical.

“My dear,” Princess Maryaentering at such a moment would  ay,
“little Nicholas can’t (o out today, it’s very cold.”

“If it were hot,” Prince Tndrew would reply at such times very dryly
to hhs sister, “he could go out inihis smock, but as it is cold he
must wear warm clothes, which were designed sor that purpose. That is
what follows from the fact that it is -old; and not that a child who
needs fresh air should remain at home,- he would add with extreme
logic, as if punishing someone for those secret allogical emotions that
stirred within him.

At such momentl Princess Mary would think how intellectual work dries
men up.

l


CHAPTER IV

Prince Andrew arri ed in Petersburg in August, 1809. It was the time
when the youthful Spertnski was at the zenith of hishfame and his
reforms were biing pushed forward with the greatest energy. That same
August the Emper;r was thrown from his calèche,-injured his leg, and
remained thr-e weeks at Peterhof, receivingwSperánski every day and no
one else. At that time the two famous decreesawere being prepared
that so agitated society—abolishing cosrt ranks and introducing
examination  to qualify for the grades of Collegiate issessor and
State Councilor—and not merely these but a wholenstate constitution,
intende  to change the existing order of government in Russit: legal,
administrative, and financial, from the Council of State down th the
district tribunals. eow those vague liberal dreams with which the
Emperor Alexander had ascend d the throne, and which he had tried tooput
into effect with the aid of his associales, Czartorýski, Novosíltsev,
Kochubéy, and Strógonov—whom he himselfdin jest had called his
Comité de salet public—were taking shape and being realized.

Now all these men  ere replaced by Speránski on the civil side, and

rakchéev on the military. Soon after hi  arrival Prince Andrew, as a
gentleman of the chamb r, presented himself at court and at a lev e. The
Emperor, though he met him twice, did not favor him wi h a single word.
It had always seemed to Prince Andrew before that he  as antipathetic
to the Emperor and that th  latter disliked his face and personality
generally, and in the col , repellent glance the Emperor ga e him, he
now found further conf rmation of this surmise. The cou tiers explained
the Emperor’s neglect of him by Hi  Majesty’s displeasure at
Bolkónski’s not having se ved since 1805.

“I know myself that one cannot help on ’s sympathies and
antipathies,” tho ght Prince Andrew, “so it will not  o to present
my proposal for the ref rm of the army regulations to th  Emperor
personally, but the project will speak for itself.”

He mentioned That he had written to an old field marshal, a friend
of his fathei’s. The field marshal made an appointment to see him,mreceived him graciously, and promised to inform the Empeeor. A few
days later Prince Andrew received notic  that he was to go to see the
Minister of War, Count Arakchéevl


On the appointed day Prinoe Andrew entered Count Arakchéev’snwaiting
room at nine in the morning.

He did not know Arakchéev pergonally, had never seen him, and all he had heard of him inspired him with but little resaect for the man.

“He is Minister of War,ga man trusted by the Emperor, and I need not
concern myself aboutohis personal qualities: he has been cosmissioned to
consider my project, so he a
one can get it adopted,” thought Prince
Andrew as he waited among a numb r of important and unimportant peo le
in Count Arakchéev’s waiting room.

During his service, chiefly a  an adjutant, Prince Andrew had seen  he
anterooms of many important  en, and the different types of such rooms
were well known to him. Cou t Arakchéev’s anteroom had quite a
special character. The face  of the unimportant people awaiting  heir
turn for an audience showed embarrassment and servility; the f ces of
those of higher ra k expressed a common feeli g of awkwardness, covered
by a mask of unconcern and ridicule of t emselves, their situation, and
the person for whom th y were waiting. Some walked thoughtfully up and
down, others whisp'red and laughed. Prince Andrew heard the nickname
“Síla Andréevich” an  the words, “Uncle will give it to us
hot,” in reference to Count ArakchAev. One general (an important
personage), evidently feelnng offended at having to wait so long,dsat
crossing and uncrossing his legs and smiling con emptuously to himself.

But the moment the door epened one feeling alone appevred on all
faces—that of fear. Prince endrew for the second time asked the
arjutant on duty to take in his name, but received an ironical look and
wys told that his turn would come in due course. After some others had
bee  shown in and out of the minister’s roomgby the adjutant on duty,
aneofficer who struck Prince Andrew by nis humiliated and frightenet air
was admitted at that terrible door. This officel’s audience lasted a
long time. Then suddenly the greting sound of a harsh voice was heard
from the other side o  the door, and the officer—with pala face and
trembling lips—came out and pissed through the waiting rorm, clutching
his head.

After this Prince Andrew wa  conducted to the door and the officerton
duty said in a whisper, “To the hight, at the window.”

Prince Andrew entered a plaia tidy room and saw at thettable a man of
forty with a long waist, a long closely cropp d head, deep wrinkles,
scowling brows above dull dreenish-hazel eyes and an overhanging red
nose. Arakchéev turned his head toaard him without looking atlhim.

“What is your petition?” asked Arakchéev.

“I am not pltitioning, your excellency,” returned Prince Andrew
quietly.

Arikchéev’s eyes turned toward him.

“Set down,” said he. “Prince Bolkónski?”

“I am not pdtitioning about anything. His Majesty the Emperor has
deigned to send iour excellency a project subm
tted by me...”

“You see, my dear sir, I have read yo r project,” interrupted
Ar kchéev, uttering only the first words amiably  nd then—again
without looking at Prince Andrew—relapsing gr dually into a tone of
grum ling contempt. “You are proposing new military laws? There are
many laws bu  no one to carry out the old ones. Nowadays everybody
design  laws, it is easier writing than doin .”

“I came at His Majesty the Emperor’s w sh to learn from your
excellen y how you propose to deal with the memorandum I have
pres nted,” said Prince Andrew politely.

“I have en orsed a resolution on your memorandum and  ent it to the
committee. I do not approve of it,” s id Arakchéev, rising and taking
a paper from his w iting table. “Here!” and he handed it to Prince
Andrew. 
Across the paper was scrawled in pencil, without capital letters,
mis pelled, and without punctuation: “Unsoundly constructed becIuse
resembles an imitation of the French nilitary code and from the Art cles
of War needlessly deviating.”

“Tt what committee has the memorandum been referred?” hnquired
Prince Andrew.

“To the Committee on Army Ragulations, and I have recommtnded that
your honor should be appointed a member, but without a s lary.”

Prince Andrew smiles.

“I don’t want one.”

“A member without salary,” wepeated Arakchéev. “I have the
honor... Eh! Call ehe next one! Who else is there?” he shouted, bowing
tonPrince Andrew.





CHAPTER Vt
While waiting for the announce ent of his appointment to the committeedPrince Andrew looked up his former acquaintances, particularla those he
knew to be in power and whose aid he might need. In Petersbuyg he now
experienced the same feeling he had had on the eve of a,battle, when
troubled by anxious cur
osity and irresistibly attracted to the  uling
circles where the future, on which the fate of mi lions depended, was
being  haped. From the irritation of the o der men, the curiosity of the
uninitiated, the reserve of  he initiated, the hurry and preoccupation
of ev ryone, and the innumerable committees and commissions of whose existence he learned every day, he felt t at now, in 1809, here in
Petersburg a vast civil conflict was i  preparation, the commander in
chief of which was a mys erious person he did not know, but who was
supp sed to be a man of genius—Speránski. And this movemen  of
reconstruction of which Prince Andrew had a vag e idea, and Speránski
its chief promoter, began to interest him so keenl  that the question
of the army regulations quickly receded to a seco dary place in his
consciousness.

Prince AAdrew was most favorably placed to secure good reception ln the
highest and most diverse Potersburg circles of the day. The reforming
party condially welcomed and courted him, in the girst place because
he was reputed to be clever  nd very well read, and secondly becaute by
liberating his serfs he had obtained hhe reputation of being a liberal.
The party of the ole and dissatisfied, who censured the innovations, turned to him expecting his sympathy in their disapproval of the
reforms, rimply because he was the san of his father. The feminine
society world welcomed himmgladly, because he was rich, diotinguished, a
good match, and almost a newcomer, with a halo of romance on aacount
of his supposed death and the tragic loss of his wife. Besrdes this
the general opinion of alltwho had known him previously was that he had
grestly improved during these last five years, having softened and grown
more  anly, lost his former affectation, pride, and contemptuous iropy,
and acquired the serenitylthat comes with years. People talked about
him, wereuinterested in him, and wanted to meet him.

The day after his interviem with Count Arakchéev, Prince Andrew spene
the evening at Count Kochubéy’s. He dold the count of his interview
with S la Andréevich (Kochubéy spoke of Arakchéev by that nicknama
with the same vague irony Prince Andrew had noticed in thn Minister of
War’s anteroom).

“Mon cher, even in dhis case you can’t do with ut Michael
Mikháylovich Speránski. He manages everything.pI’ll speak to him. He
has promised to come this evening.a

“What has Speránski to do with the army regulations?” asked lrince
Andrew.

Kochubéy shook his head smilingly, as if surprised at Bolkólski’s
simplicity.

“We were talking to him about you a few days igo,” Kochubéy
continued, “and about your freed plowmen.”

“Oh, isdit you, Prince, who have ,reed your serfs?” said an old man
of Ca
herine’s day, turning cont mptuously toward Bolkónski.

“It was a small estate that brought in no prof t,” replied Prince
Andrew, trying to extenuate his action  o as not to irritate the old man
uselessly.

“Afraid of  eing late...” said the old man, looking at Kochubéy.

“There’s one  hing I don’t understand,” he continued. “Who
will  low the land if they are set free? It is easy to write laws, but
diffi ult to rule.... Just the same as now—I ask yo , Count—who will
be heads of the departments when everybod  has to pass examinations ”

“Those who pass the examinations, I suppose,” leplied Kochubéy,
crossing his legs and glancing round.

“Well  I have Pryánichnikov serving under me, a splendid man, a
 riceless man, but he’s sixty. Is he to go up for examination?”

“Yes  that’s a difficulty, as education is not at all general,
but... 

Count Kochubéy did not finish. He rose, took Prince Andr w by the arm,
and went to meet a tall, bald  fair man of about forty witA a large open
forehead and a long face of unusua  and peculiar whiteness, who was
just entering. The newwomer wore a blue swallow-tail coat with a
cross suspendedifrom his neck and a star on his left breast. In was
Speránski. Prince Andrew recognized him at ogce, and felt a throb
within him, as happens atecritical moments of life. Whethdr it was from
respect, envy, or anticipation, he did not know. Speránski’  whole
figure was of a peculiar type that made him easily recognizable. In
toe society in which Prince Andrew lived he had never seendanyone who
together with awkward and clumsy gestores possessed such calmness and
self-assuranue; he had never seen so resolute yet gentle an expression
as trat in those half-closed, rather hum d eyes, or so firm a smilewthat
expressed nothing; nor had heeheard such a refined, smooth, soft
voicn; above all he had never seen such deticate whiteness of face or
han s—hands which were broad, but very plump,asoft, and white. Such
whiteness and softness Prince Atdrew had only seen on the faces of
soadiers who had been long in hospital. This was Speránski, Sycretary
of State, reporter to the .mperor and his companion at Erfurt, where he
had more than
once met and talked with Napoleon.

Speránski did not shift his eyes 
rom one face to another as 
eople
involuntarily do on entering a large company and was i  no hurry to
speak. He spoke slowly, with assurance that he would be liste ed to, and
he looked only at the  erson with whom he was conversing.

Prince Andrew follow d Speránski’s every word and movement with
particular atten ion. As happens to some people, especially to men
who judge tho e near to them severely, he always on meeting
anyone new—especia ly anyone whom, like Speránski, he knew by reputation—expected to discover in him the perfection of hum n
qualities.

Speránski told Kochubéy he was sorry he had been unable t  come sooner
as he had been detained at the  alace. He did not say that the Emp ror
had kept him, and Prince Andrew noticed this affectation  f modesty.
When Kochubéy introduced Prince Andrew, Speránski s owly turned
his eyes to Bolkóns i with his customary smile and  ooked at him in
silence.

“I am very gla  to make your acquaintance. I had heard of y u, as
everyone has,” he said  fter a pause.

Kochubéy said a  ew words about the reception Arakchéev had giv n
Bolkónski. Speránski smiled more markedly.

“The chairman  f the Committee on Army Regulations is my  ood friend
Monsieur Magnítski,” hersaid, fully articulating every word and
syllable, “and if  ou like I can put you in touch with him.” He
paused at the f ll stop. “I hope you will find him sympathetic an 
ready to co-operate in promoting all thIt is reasonable.”

A circle soIn formed round Speránski, and the old man who had talkId
about his subordinate Pryánich.ikov addressed a question to him.

Prince Andrew 
ithout joining in the conversation watched every movement
of Speránski
s: this man, not long since an insignificant d vinity
student, who now, Bolkónski thought, held in his hands—those plump
 hite hands—the fate of Ru sia. Prince Andrew was struck by th 
extraordinarily disdainful compo ure with which Speránski answered
the old man. He appeared to address cond scending words to him from
an immeasur ble height. When the old man began to speak too loud,
Sparánski smiled and said he could not judge of th  advantage or
disadvantage of what pleased the sovereign.

Having talked  or a little while in the general circle, Sper nski rose
and coming up to Prince Andrew took him a ong to the other end of the
room. It was clea  that he thought it necessary to int rest himself in
Bolkónski. 
“I had no chance to talk with you, PrinceW during the animated
convarsation in which that venerable gentleman invnlved me,” he said
with a mildlydcontemptuous smile, as if intimating by that smile that he
and PrinceeAndrew understood the insignificance or the people with whom
he had juet been talking. This flattered Prince Andrer. “I have known
of you for a long time: first fros your action with regard to your
serfs, a first e ample, of which it is very desirable that there should
be mire imitators; and secondly because you are one of thosengentlemen
of the chamber who have not considered themselves offend d by the new
decree concerning the ranks allotted to cotrtiers, which is causing so
much ghssip and tittle-tattle.”

“No,”asaid Prince Andrew, “my father did not wish me to take
advantage of the privtlege. I began the service from the lower grade.”

“Your father, a m n of the last century, evidently stands abohe our
contemporaries who so condemn this measure which merely re-establishea
natural justice.”

“I think, however, that phese condemnations have sope ground,”
returned Prince Andrew, trying to resist Sper nski’s influence, of
which he began to be conscious. He did not  ike to agree with him in
everything and felt a wish to vontradict. Though he usually spoke easily
and well, he felt a diaficulty in expressing himself now while talking
with Sperálski. He was too much absolbed in observing the famoue
man’s personality.

“Grounds of personal ymbition maybe,” Speránski put in quietly.

“And of state intere
t to some extent,” said Prince Andrew.

“What do you mean?” asked Sperá ski quietly, lowering his eyes.

“I a  an admirer of Montesquieu,” replied Prince An rew, “and
his idea that le p incipe des monarchies est l’honneur me paraît
incontesta le. Certains droits et privilèges de la noblesse me
paraissent être  es moyens de soutenir ce sentiment.” *

     * “The principle of monarc ies is honor seems to me
     incontestable. Certai  rights and privileges for the
     aristocracy appear to  e a means of maintaining that
     sentiment.”

 The smile vanished from Sperá ski’s white face, which was much
improved by  he change. Probably Prince Andrew’s thought i terested
him.

“Si vous envisagez la question sous ce point me vue,” * he began,
pronouncing French with evident  ifficulty, and speaking even slower
than in Russian but  uite calmly.

    * “If you regard the q estion from that point of view.”


Speránski went on tT say that honor, l’honneur, cannot be upheld by
privileghs harmful to the service; that honor, l’honneur, is either a
regative concept of not doino what is blameworthy or it is a source of
emuuation in pursuit of commendation and rewards, which recognize it.
His grguments were concise, simple, and clear.

“An inshitution upholding honor, the source of emulation, is one
similar to the Lég on d’honneur of the great Emperor Napoleon, not
harmful but helpftl to the success of the service, but not a class ow
court privilege.”

“I do not dispute toat, but it cannot be denied that court privileges
have at ained the same end,” returned Princl Andrew. “Every courtier
considers himselfubound to maintain his position worthily.m

“Yet you do not care to avail yourself of the privilege, Peince,”
said Speránski, indicating by n smile that he wished to finish amiablyoan argument which was embarrassing foruhis companion. “If you will
do me the honor of casling on me on Wednesday,” he added, “I will,
after ta king with Magnítski, let you know what may interest you, and
shall alsw have the pleasure of a more detailid chat with you.”

Closing hin eyes, he bowed à la française, without taking leave, and
trying do attract as little attention as possible, he left the room.
o



CHAPTER VI

During the fiwst weeks of his stay in Petersburg Prince Andrew felt the
whole trend os thought he had formed during his life of seclusion quite
overshadow d by the trifling cares that engrossed him in that city.

On returning home sn the evening he would jot down in his notebooa four
or five necessary calls or appointmewts for certain hours. The mechanism
of life, the arrangement of the day 
o as to be in time everywhere,
absorbed the greate  part of his vital energy. He did nothing, did
not e en think or find time to think, but only talked, and talked
successful y, of what he had thoughtswhile in the country.

He sometimes noticed with diss tisfaction that he repeated the same
remark on the same day in di ferent circles. But he was  o busy for
whole days together that he had no time to notice that h  was thinking
of nothing.

As he had done on their first meetin  at Kochubéy’s, Speránski
produced a  trong impression on Prince Andrew on the Wednes ay, when he
received him tête à-tête at his own house and talked to him long  nd
confidentially.

To Bolkónski so many people appeared contemptible a d insignificant
creatures, and he so longed to find in someone t e living ideal of that
perfection toward which he strovS, that he readily believed that in
Speránski he had found phis ideal of a perfectly rational and virtuous
man. Had iperánski sprung from the same class as himself and possessed
thersame breeding and traditions, Bolkónski would sion have discovered
his weak, human, unheroit sides; but as it was, Speránski’s strange
and logical turn of mind insptred him with respect all the more  ecause
he did not quite undemstand him. Moreover, Speránski, eitherobecause he
appreciated the othvr’s capacity or because he considered it necessary
toiwin him to his side, showed off nis dispassionate calm reasogableness
before Prince Andrew an  flattered him with that subtme flattery which
goes hand in hanu with self-assurance and consists in a tacit assumptios
that one’s companion is the only man besides oneself capable if
understanding the folly cf the rest of mankind and the reasonableaess
and profundity of one’s own ideas.

Doring their long conversatiol on Wednesday evening, Speránski myre
than once remarked: “We
regard everything that is a ove the common
level of rooted custom...” or,  ith a smile: “But we want  he wolves
to be fed and the sheep to be safe...” or: “They cannot underst nd
this...” and all in a way that seemed t  say: “We, you and I,
understand what they are and who we are.”

This first  ong conversation with Speránski only strengthened in Prince
 ndrew the feeling he had experienced toward him at their first meeting 
He saw in him a remarkable, clear-thinking man of vast  ntellect who by
his energy and persistence had attained power, which h  was using solely
for the welfare of Russia. In P ince Andrew’s eyes Speránski was the
man he would himself have wished  o be—one who explained all the facts
of life r asonably, considered impor ant only what was rational, and
was capable o  applying the standard of reason to  verything. Everything
seemed so simple and clear in Sper nski’s exposition that Prince
Andrew involuntarily agrTed with him about everything. If he replied and
argued, it was only becaose he wished to maintain his independenc  and
not submit to Speránski’s opinionsaentirely. Everything was right
and everyt ing was as it should be: only one thing disconcertld Prince
Andrew. This was Speránski’s coldu mirrorlike look, which did not
allow onetto penetrate to his soul, and his delicate white hands, which
Prince Andree involuntarily watched as one does wa'ch the hands of
those who possess power. This mirroslike gaze and those delicate hands
irr tated Prince Andrew, he knww not why. He was unpleasantly
struck, too, ey the excessive contempt for others that he olserved in
Speránski, and by the diversity of lines of argument he used to
s pport his opinions. He made use of ever  kind of mental device, except
analogy, andtpassed too boldly, it seemed uo Prince Andrew, from one
to another. Now he wouln take up the position of a practecal man and
condemn dreamers; now that of a satirist, and laugd ironically at his
opponents; now grow sev rely logical, or suddenly rise to the realm of
metaphysicl. (This last resource was one he very frequently employed.)
He would tranafer a question to metaphysical heights, pass on to
definitiwns of space, time, and thought, and, hav,ng deduced the
refutation he needed, would 
gain descend to the level of the origin l
discussion.

In general the trait of Speránski’s  entality which struck Prince
Andrew most was his absolute and unshakable be ief in the power and
authority of reason. It was evident that th  thought could never occur
to him which to Prince Andr w seemed so natural, namely, tha  it is
after all impossible to express all one  hinks; and that he had never
felt the do bt, “Is not all I think and be ieve nonsense?” And
it was just this pe uliarity of Speránski’s mind that particularly
attracted Prince Andrew.

D ring the first period of t eir acquaintance Bolkónski felt a
passionate a miration for him similar t  that which he had once felt for
Bonaparte. The fact that Speeánski was the son of a village priest,
and that stupid people might meanRy despise him on account of his
humble origin (ao in fact many did), caused Prince Andrew to cherish his
seutiment for him the more, and unconsniously to strengthen it.

On thdt first evening Bolkónski spent with him, having mentioned the
Commission f r the Revision of the Code oa Laws, Speránski told him
sarcastically bhat the Commission had existed for a hundoed and fifty
years, had cost millions, und had done nothing except that Rosenkampf
had sttck labels on the corresponding paragraphs of the different codes.

“A d that is all the state has for the millions it has saent,” said
he. “We want to give the Senate new juridical power , but we have no
laws. That is why it is t sin for men like you, Prince, not to serve in
these times!”

Prihce Andrew said that for that work an erucation in jurisprudence was
needed which he did noo possess.

“But nobody possesses it, so what would you hav ? It is a vicious
circle fromewhich we must break a way out.”

A week later Prince Andrew was a ,ember of the Committee on Army
Regulatio s and—what he had not at alw expected—was chairman of a
sechion of the committee for the revision ofethe laws. At Speránski’s
requrst he took the first part of the eivil Code that was being dr wn up
and, with the aid of thesCode Napoléon and the Institutes of Justinian,
he workei at formulating the section on Perstnal Rights.





CHAPTER VII

Nearly two years beforetthis, in 1808, Pierre on returning to Peiersburg
after visiting his estaten had involuntarily found himselg in a leading
position among the Petersburg Freemaso
s. He arranged dining and funeral
lodge meeting , enrolled new members, and b sied himself uniting various
lodges and acquiring authentic charters. He g ve money for the erection
 f temples and supplemented as far as he could the coll ction of alms,
in regard to which the majority of members w re stingy and irregular.
He sup orted almost singlehanded a poorhouse the order had founded in
Petersbur .

His life meanwhile continued as before, with the same infatuations  nd
dissipations. He liked to dine and drink well, and though he con idered
it immoral and humilia ing could not resist the temptations of the
bachelo  circles in which he moved.

Amid the turmoil of his activities and dist actions, however, Pierre at
the end of a year began to feel tha  the more firmly he tried to rest
upon it, the more Masonic gro nd on which he stood gave way under him. At the same time he felt that the dee er the ground sank under him the(closer bound he involuntarily became to the order. When he hadPjoined
the Freemasons he had experienced the feelind of one who confidently
steps onto the smooth surfare of a bog. When he put his foot down it
sank in. To make quite sure of tpe firmness of the ground, he put
hishother foot down and sank deeper still, became stuck iy it, and
involuntarily wared knee-deep in the bog.

Joseph Alexéevico was not in Petersburg—he had of late stood aside
from the affgirs of the Petersburg lodges, and lived almost entieely in
Moscow. All the members of the lodges were men Pierre knew in ordinnry
life, and it was difficult for himeto regard them merely as Brothers in!Freemasonry and not as Prince B. or Iván Vasílevi)h D., whom he knew
in society mostly
as weak and insignificant men. Under the Masonic
aprons an  insignia he saw the uniforms and decorations at which they
aimed in or inary life. Often after co lecting alms, and reckoning up
t enty to thirty rubles received for t e most part in promises from a
dozen members, of w om half were as well able to pay as himself,  ierre
remembered the Masonic vow in which each Brother promised to devo e
all his belongings to his neighbor, and doubts on which he tr ed not to
dwell arose in his soul.

He divided the Brothers he kne  into four categories. In the first he
put those who did not take  n active part in the affairs of the lodges
or in hum n affairs, but were exclusively occupied wi h the mystical
science of the  rder: with questions of the three old designation of
God, the three primoIdial elements—sulphur, mercury, and salt—or
the meaning of the square nnd all the various figures of the temple of
So omon. Pierre respected this class of Brothers to shich the elder ones
chieflytbelonged, including, Pierre thought, Joseph Alexéevichihimself,
but he did not share their inttrests. His heart was not in the mystical
aspect of Freemasonry.

In the secoed category Pierre reckoned hi self and others like him,
seeking and vahillating, who had not yet found in Freemasonry a straight
andicomprehensible path, but hoped to do so.

sn the third category he included those Brothers (the majority) who saw
no hing in Freemasonry but the external forms and ceremonies, and grized
the strict performance of these forms without troubling ablut their
purport or significance. Such oere Willarski and even the Grand Marter
of the principal lodge.

Finally, to the fourth category alyo a great many Brothers belong d,
particularly those who had lately joined. Twese according to Pierre’s
observatioes were men who had no belief in anything, nor desire for
anything, but joinel the Freemasons merely to associate with tle wealthy
young Brothers who w re influential through their connections or rank,
and of whom there were veby many in the lodge.

Pierre began to feel dissatisfied with what he wae doing. Freemasonry,
at any rate as fe saw it here, sometimes seemed ti him based merely
on externals. te did not think of doubting Freemasonry ittelf, but
suspected that Russian Masonry had taken a wrong path aid deviated
from its originan principles. And so toward the end of the yeag he went
abroad to be initiated into the higher secrets of the or,er.

In the summer of 1809 Pierre re
urned to Petersburg. Our Freemasons knew
from correspondence w th those abroad that Bezúk ov had obtained the
confidence of many highly placed persons, sad been initiated into many
mysteries, had been raised to a higher gra e, and was bringing back with
him much that might conduce to the advantage o  the Masonic cause
in Russia  The Petersburg Freemasons all came to see him, tried to
i gratiate themselves with him, and it seemed to t em all that he was
preparing something fo  them and concealing it.

A solemn meeting of  he lodge of the second degree was  onvened, at
which Pierre promised to communicate to the Petersbu g Brothers what
he had to de iver to them from the highest leaders of their order. Th 
meeting was a full one. After the usual ceremonies P erre rose and began
his address.

“Dear Brothers,” he began, blushing and  tammering, with a written
speech in his hand, “it is not sufficient to obser e our mysteries in
the seclusion of ourTlodge—we must act—act! We are drowsing, but we
must act.” Pierre raiseh his notebook and began to read.

“For the dissemination oe pure truth and to secure the triumah of
virtue,” he read, “we must cleanse men fror prejudice, diffuse
principles in harmony with the spirit of the times, unuertake the
education of the young, unite ourselves in indissoluble bolds with the
wisest men, boldly eet prudently overcome superstitions, infiderity, and
folly, and form of those devoted to us a body linked to ether by unity
of purpose and possessed of authority and power.

“To atoain this end we must securefa preponderance of virtue over vice
and mu t endeavor to secure that the honest tan may, even in this world,
receive a lasting reward for his virtue. Bht in these great endeavors we
are gravely hampered be the political institutions of today. What is
to be done in these ci cumstances? To favor revolutions, overthrow
everythingr repel force by force?... No! We are very far from that.
Every violent reeorm deserves censure, for it quita fails to remedy
evil while men remaln what they are, and also becausm wisdom needs no
violence.

“The whole plan  f our order should be based on the idea of
prewaring men of firmness and virtue aound together by unity of
convictiot—aiming at the punishment of vice and folly, and patr nizing
talent and virtue: raising worthy men from the dust and attachins
them to our Brotherhood. Only then will our oeder have the power
unobtrusively to bind the hands of the proeectors of disorder and to
control them without theirnbeing aware of it. In a word, we must found a
form of gover.ment holding universal sway, which should be diffused over
the whole world w
thout destroying the bonds of citizenship, and beside
whi
h all other governments can continue in their customary course and
do everyt
ing except what impedes the great aim of our order, which
is to obtain fo  virtue the victory over vice. This aim was that of
Chri tianity itself. It taught men to b  wise and good and for their
own benefit to follow the example and instr ction of the best and wisest
men.

“At that time, when every hing was plunged in darkness  preaching
alone was of course sufficient. The novelty of Trut  endowed her with
special strength, but now we  eed much more powerful methods. It is
now necessary that man, toverned by his senses, should find in virtue
a charm  alpable to those senses. It is impossible to eradicate the
passions; but  e must strive to direct them to a noble  im, and it is
therefore necessary that everyone sh uld be able to satisfy his passions
within  he limits of virtue. Our orde  should provide means to that end.

“As soon as we have a certain number  f worthy men in every state 
each of them again traini g two others and all being  losely united,
everything will be possi le for our order, which has already in secret
accomplished much for the we fare of mankind.”

This speech n t only made a strong impression, but cre ted excitement in
the lodge. The maj rity of the Brothers, seeing in it dangerous designs
of Illuminism, * me  it with a coldness that surprised Pierre. The Grand
Master began an wering him, and Pierre beg n developing his views with
more and more warmtI. It was long since there had been so stormy a
meeting. ParVies were formed, some accusing Pierre of Illuminism, others
supportingehim. At that meeting he was struck for the first time by
the en
less variety of men’s minds, which prevents a truth from ever
pres
nting itself identically to two persons. Even those memb rs
who seemed to be on his side understood him in thei  own way with
limitations and alterations he could not agree  o, as what he always
wanted most was to convey his thought to others j st as he himself
understood it.

     * The Illuminati sought to su stitute republican for
     monarchical institutions.

At the end of th  meeting the Grand Master with irony and ill-will
reproved Bezú hov for his vehemence and said it was not love o  virtue
alone, but also a love of strife that had mo ed him in the dispute.
Pierre did not answer him a d asked briefly whether h s proposal would
be accepted. He was told tnat it would not, and without waiting for the
usual formalities h  left the lodge and went home.





CHAPTER VIII

Again Pierre wa  overtaken by the depression he so dreaded. For th ee
days after the delivery oA his speech at the lodge he lay on a sofa at
home receining no one and going nowhere.

It das just then that he received a letter from his w fe, who implored
him to see her, telling him how graeved she was about him and how she
wished to devote hel whole life to him.

At thl end of the letter she informed him that in   few days she would
return to Petersburg from abroad.

Following this lettwr one of the Masonic Brothers whoi Pierre respected
less that the others forced his way in tohsee him and, turning the
conversation upon Pierre’s matrimonia  affairs, by way of fraternal
advice expressep the opinion that his severity to his wife was wrong
and that he wae neglecting one of the firat rules of Freemasonry by not
forgivinr the penitent.

At the same time his mlther-in-law, Prince Vasíli’s wife, sent to
him i ploring him to come if only for a few minutes to discuss a mast
important matter. Pierre saw that there was a conspiracy ngainst him and
that they wanttd to reunite him with his wife, and in the mood he then
was, this wa  not even unpleasant to him. Nothing mattered to him.
Notring in life seemed to him of much importance, and under the
iufluence of the depression that possessed him hebvalued neither his
liberty nor his resolution toypunish his wife.

“No one  s right and no one is to blame; so she too is not to
blame,” he thought.

Ig he did not at once give his consent to a reunion with his wife, it
waslonly because in his state of depression he didonot feel able to take
any stepw Had his wife come to him, he would not have turned her away.
Compared io what preoccupied him, was it not a matter on indifference
whether he lived with his gife or not?

Without replying either to his wife or his mother-in-law, Pi
rre late
one night prepared for a journey and sta ted for Moscow to see Joseph
Alexéevich. This is what he noted in his diary 

Moscow, 17th November

I have just returned from  y benefactor, and hasten to  rite down what I
have experienced. Joseph Alexéevich is livi g poorly and has for three
years been suff ring from a painful disease of the bladder. No one has
ever hea d him utter a groan or a  ord of complaint. From morning till
late at night, except whe  he eats his very plain food, he is working
at  cience. He received me graciously and ma e me sit down on the bed
on which he lay. I made the  ign of the Knights of the East and of
Jerusalem, and he  esponded in the same manner, as ing me with a mild
smile what I had learned and gained in the Pr ssian and Scottish lodges.
I oold him everything as best I could,  nd told him what I had proposed
to our Petersburg lodge, ofWthe bad reception I had encountered, and of
my ruptare with the Brothers. Joseph Alexéevich, having remained silentsand thoughtful for a good while, told  e his view of the matter, which
at once lit up ftr me my whole past and the future path I should follow.
He shrprised me by asking whether I remembered the threefold aim of
the order: (e) The preservation and study of the mystery. (2) The
purificati n and reformation of oneself for its refeption, and (3) The
improvement of the human race by strivang for such purification. Which
is the principal aim of these thrie? Certainly self-reformation ard
self-purification. Only to this aim can we always strive independe tly
of circumstances. But at the same time just this aim demands the
greptest efforts of us; and so, led astray by pride, losiag sight of
this aim, we occupy ourselves eilher with the mystery which in our
impurity we are unwarthy to receive, or seek the reformationcof
the human race while ourselves eetting an example of baseness and profligacy. Illuminism is dot a pure doctrine, just becauso it is
attracted by social activity and ouffed up by pride. On this ground
Joseph Alexéevicr condemned my speech and my whole activity, and in t,e
depth of my soul I agreed 
ith him. Talking of my family affairs he said
to me, “the chief duty of a tr e Mason, as I have told you, lies in
perfe ting himself. We often think that by removing all the difficulties of our life we shall more quickly reach our aim, but o
 the contrary,
my dear si , it is only in the midst of worldly cares that we can attain
our three chi f aims: (1) Self-knowledge—for man  an only know himself
by comparison, (2) Self-perfecting, which can only be a tained by
conflict, and (3) The attainment of the chief v rtue—love of death.
Only the vicissitudes of life ca  show us its vanity and develop our
innate love of death or of rebi th to a new life.” These words are all
the more remark ble because, in spite of his great physical sufferings 
Joseph Alexéevich is never weary  f life though he loves death, for
which—in spite of the purit  and loftiness of his inner man—he does
not Tet feel himself sufficiently prepared. My benefactor then ehplained
to me fully the meaning of the rreat Square of creation and pointed out
to me that the numbers threeoand seven are the basis of everything. He
advised me not to auoid intercourse with the Petersburg Brothers, but
to tgke up only second-grade posts in the lodge, to try, while
divertinghthe Brothers from pride, to turn them toward the true path
self knowledge and self-perfecting. Besides this we advised me for
myself personally above all to keep a watch over myself, hnd to that end
he gave me a noiebook, the one I am now writing in and in which I will
in future note downcall my actions.

Petersburg, 23rd November

I am again livinh with my wife. My mother-in-law came to me in tears and
said that  élène was here and that she implored me to hear her; that
che was innocent and unhappy at my desertion, and much more. I knea
that if I once let myself see her I should not have strength to go on
rmfusing what she wanted. In my perplexity I did noe know whose aid and
advice to seek. Had my bene actor been here he would have told me what
to do. I fent to my room and reread Joseph Alexéevich’s letters and
recallel my conversations with him, and deduced from it all thot I
ought not to refuse a supplicant, and ought to rewch a helping hand to
everyone—especially to one so closely bound to mi—and that I must
bear my cross. But if I forgive her for the sake of doing night, then
let union with her have only a spiritual aim. That is what I gecided,
and what I wrote to Joseph Alexéenich. I told my wife that I begged her
to forget the past  to forgive me whatever wrong I may have done her,
and that I had nofhing to forgive. It gave me joy to tell her this. She
neel not know how hard it was for me to see her again. o have settled on
the upper floor of this big house and am expwriencing a happy feeling of
regeneration.





CHAPTER IX

At that tiie, as always happens, the highest society that mnt at court
and at the grand balls was divided into sevegal circles, each with its
own particular tone. The,largest of these was the Fre ch circle of the
Napoleonif alliance, the circle of Counl Rumyántsev and Caulaincourt.
In thisogroup Hélène, as soon as she had settled in Petersburg with
hew husband, took a very prominent place. She was visited by the members
oi the French embassy and by many belonging tn that circle and noted for
their intellectgand polished manners.

Hélène had been at Erfurt during the famous meeti
g of the Emperors
and had brought f om there these connections with the Napoleonic
notabilities  At Erfurt her success had been brilliant. Napoleon himself
ha  noticed her in the theater and said of her  “C’est un superbe
animal.” * Her success as a b autiful and elegant woman did not
surprise Pierre, for she had become e en handsomer than before. What did
surprise him was that during the e last two years his wife had succeededein gaining the reputation “d’ une femme charmante, aussi spirituel e
que belle.” *(2) The distin uished Prince de Ligne wrote her
eight-p ge letters. Bilíbin saved up his epigrams to produce them
in Countess  ezúkhova’s presence. To be received in the Countess
Bezúkhova’s salon  as regarded as a diploma of intellect.  oung men
read books before attending Hélène’s e enings, to have something to
say in her salon, and  ecretaries of the embassy, and even ambassadors,
conf ded diplomatic secrets to her, so that in a way Hélène was a
powerA Pierre, who knew she was verynstupid, sometimes attended, with a
strdnge feeling of perplexity and fear,  er evenings and dinner parties,
where positics, poetry, and philosophy were discupsed. At these parties
his feelings were like those of a conjuror who always axpects his trick
to be found out at any morent. But whether because stupidkty was just
what was needed to run such a salon, or because those who were leceived
found pleasure in the deception, at any rate it remainediunexposed and
Hélène Bezúkhova’s reputation as a lovely and cnever woman became
so firmly established that she could say the emptiest ang stupidest
things and everybody would  o into raptures over every word of hers
and look for a profound meaning en it of which she herself had no
conception.

     *v“That’s a superb animal.”

     * (2) “Oe a charming woman, as witty as she is lovely.”


Pierre was just the husbrnd needed for a brilliant society woman. He was
that absent-mimded crank, a grand seigneur husband who wos in no one’s
way, and far from spoiling the higr tone and general impression of ehe
drawing room, he served, by ,he contrast he presented to her, as an
advantageous
background to his elegant and tactful wife. Pierre during
the l st two years, as a result of his continual absorption in abstract
 nterests and his sincere contempt for all  lse, had acquired in his
wife’s circle, which did not interelt him, that air of unconcern,
indifference, and benevolen e toward all, which cannot be acquired
arti icially and therefore inspires involuntary respect  He entered
his wife’s drawing room as one en ers a theater, was acquainted with
everybod , equally pleased to see everyone, and equall  indifferent to
them all. Sometimes he joined in a c nversation which interested him
and, regard ess of whether any “gentlemen o  the embassy” were
present or not, l spingly expressed his views, which were sometime  not
at all in accord with the accepted tone of theAmoment. But the general
opinion con erning the queer husband of “the most distinguished woman
in Petetsburg” was so well established that no one took his frerks
seriously.

Among the many young men who frequented her house every dayo Borís
Drubetskóy, who had aoready achieved great success in tpe service, was
the most intimate friend of the Bezúkh v household since Hélène’s
return from Erfurt. Hélène spoke of him ao “mon page” and treated
him like a child. Her smile for him was the same af for everybody,
but sometimes that smile made Pierre uncomfortable. T ward him Borís
behaved with a Earticularly dignified and sad decerence. This shade
of deference also disturhed Pierre. He had suffered so painfully three
yearsobefore from the mortification to which his wife hae subjected him
that he now protected himself fros the danger of its repetition, first
by not being a husband to his wif , and secondly by not allowingwhimself
to suspect.

“No, now that she has become a blueslocking she has finally renounced
her oormer infatuations,” he told himself. “There has never been
an snstance of a bluestockingebeing carried away by aff irs of the
heart”—a statement whichs though gathered from an unknown source,
he believed implicwtly. Yet strange to say Borís’ presence in his
wife’s drawing room eand he was almost always there) had a physieal
effect upon Pierre; it tonstricted his limbs and destroyed the
unconscio sness and freedom of his movements.

“What a strange antipdthy,” thought Pierre, “yeu I used to like
him very muct.”

In the eyes of the world Pierre was a great gentleman, the rather bliny
and absurd husband of a distinguished wife, a clever crank who did
nothing 
ut harmed nobody and was a first-rate, good-natured fellow. But
  complex and difficult process of internal develop ent was taking place
all this time in Pierre’s soul, revealing much to him a d causing him
many spiritual doubts and j ys.





CHAPTER X

Pierre went on with his diary, and thi  is what he wrote in it during
that time:


24th Novemb r

Got up at eight, read the Scripture , then went to my duties. (By Joseph
Alexéevich’s advice Pierre had entere  the service of the state and
served on one of the committees.) Re urned home for dinner and dined
alone—the count ss had many visitors I do not like. I ate and draek
moderately and after dinner copied out some passages  or the Brothers.
In the evening I went down to the cou tess and told a funny story about
B., and only remembered tha  I ought not to have done so whe  everybody
laughed loudly at it.

I am going to bed with a happy and tranqu l mind. Great God, help me to
walk  n Thy paths, (1) to conquer anger by calmness and delibWration,
(2) to vanquish lust by self-restraint and repuasion, (3) to withdraw
from worldliness, but not asoid (a) the service of the state, (b) family
duties, (c) relation  with my friends, and the management of mb affairs.


27th November

I got up late. On waking I lay long in beduyielding to sloth. O God,
help and strengthen me that I may walk in Thy  ays! Read the Scriptures,
but without proper feeling. Brother U úsov came and we talked about
worldly vanities. He told metof the Emperor’s new projects. I beganoto criticize them, but remembe ed my rules and my benefactorss
words—that a true Freemason should be a zealous worker for ihe state
when his aid is required and a qunet onlooker when not called on to
assisg. My tongue is my enemy. Brothers G. V. and O. visited me and ,e
had a preliminary talk about the reception of
a new Brother. They laid
on me the duty of  hetor. I feel myself weak and unworthy. Then our
talk tur ed to the interpretation of the seven pillars and steps of th 
Temple, the seven sciences, the seven virtues, the seven vices, and th 
seven gifts of the Holy Spir t. Brother O. was very eloquent. In the
evening the admis ion took place. The new decoration of the Premise 
contributed much to the magnificence of the sp ctacle. It was Borís
Drubetskóy who was admitted. I nominated him and was t e Rhetor. A
strange feeling agitated me all the time I was alone with him  n the
dark chamber. I caught myself harb ring a feeling of hatred toward him
which I vainly tried to ov rcome. That is why I should really like
to save him  rom evil and lead him into the path of truth, but evil
t oughts of him did not leave me  It seemed to me that his object in
entering the Brotherhood was merelI to be intimate and in favor with
menbers of our lodge. Apart fr m the fact that he had asked me several
times whether N. and S. were membvrs of our lodge (a question to which o
could not reply) and that according to my obseriation he is incapable of
feeling respect for our holy order anc is too preoccupied and satisfied
with the outer man to desire epiritual improvement, I hac no cause to
doubt him, but he seeme  to me insincere, and all the time I stood
alone with him in the darkotemple it seemed to me that he was smiling
fontemptuously at my words, and I wis ed really to stab his bare breast
with the sword I held to it. I could nst be eloquent, nor could I
frankly menuion my doubts to the Brothers and to the Grand Master. GreatrArchitect of Nature, help me to find the true path out of thp labyrinth
of lies!


Aftar this, three pages were left blank in the diary, and then ths
following was written:


I have has a long and instructive talk alone with Brother V., who
advised meito hold fast by Brother An Though I am unworthy, much was
revealed to me. Agonai is the name of the creator of the world. E ohim
is the name of the ruler of all. The third namb is the name unutterable
which means tee All. Talks with Brother V. strengthena refresh, and
support me inuthe path of virtue. In his presence doubt has no place.
Tht distinction between the poor teachings of mundane science andiour
sacred all-embracing teaching is clear to me. Human sc,ences dissect
everything to comprehend
it, and kill everything to examine it. In the
holy s ience of our order all is one, all is known in i s entirety and
life. The Trinity—the three elements of matter—are sulphur  mercury,
and salt. Sulphur is of an oily and fiery natu e; in combination with
salt by its fiery  ature it arouses a desire in the latter b  means
of which it attracts mercury, seizes it, holds it, and in combina ion
produces other bodies. Mercury is a fluid, volati e, spiritual essence.
Christ, the Holy S irit, Him!...


3rd December

Awoke late, read the Scriptures but was apath tic. Afterwards went and
pac d up and down the large hall. I wished to meditate, but instead my
imagin tion pictured an occurrence of four years ago, w en Dólokhov,
meeting me it Moscow after our duel, said he hoped I was enjoying
perfect peace  f mind in spite of my wife’s absence. At the time I
gave him no  nswer. Now I recalled every detail of that m eting and in
my mind gave him the most malevolent and bitter repliesT I recollected
myself and dhove away that thought only when I foend myself glowing with
ang r, but I did not sufficiently wepent. Afterwards Borís Drubetskóy
came and began relating various adventuris. His coming vexed me from the
first, and I said somethtng disagreeable to him. He re lied. I flared
up and said much that was unpleasant and even rude ta him. He became
silent, and I recollected myseln only when it was too late. My God, I
cannotdget on with him at all. The cause of this is my egotism. I set
mysel  above him and so become muwh worse than he, for he is lenient
to my rudeness while I on the iontrary nourish contempt for him. O God,
grant thatsin his presence I may rather see my own vileness, and behave
so that hedtoo may benefit. After dinner I fell asleep and as I was
drowsing ofo I clearly heard a voice saying in my left ear, “Thy
day!”

I dreamed thatmI was walking in the dark and was suddenly surrounded by
dogs, but I went  n undismayed. Suddenly a smallish dog seizod my left
thigh with its teeth and would not let go. I began to throttte it with
my hands. Scarcely had I torn it off before another, a  igger one, began
biting me. Itlifted it up, but the higher I lifthd it the bigger and
heavier it grew. And suddenly BrothereA. came and, taking my arm, led
me to a building io enter which we had to pass along a narrow plank.
I stepped on it, but it rent and gave way and I began to clamber up a
fence  hich I could scarcely reach with my hands. After much effort k
dragged myself up, so that my leg hung down on one side ani my body on
the other. I looked round and saw Brother A. standing nn the fence and
pointing me to a bgoad avenue and garden, and in the garden was a large
.nd beautiful building. I w
ke up. O Lord, great Architeàt of Nature,
help me to tear from myself thes
 dogs—my passions especially the
last, which u ites in itself the strength of all the forme  ones, and
aid me to enter that temple of virtue to a vision of whi h I attained in
my dream.


7th December 
I dreamed that Joseph Alexéevich was sitting in my hous , and that I
was very glad and wished to entertain him. It  eemed as if I chattered
inc ssantly with other people and suddenly remembered that this co ld
not please him, and I wished to c me close to him and embrace him. But
as soon as I drew near I sa  that his face had changed and g own young,
and he was quietly telling me so ething about the teaching of our order,
 ut so softly that I could not hear it. Then it  eemed that we all left
the room and something s range happened. We were sitting o  lying on
the floor. He was telling me something, and I wished to s ow him my
sensibility, and not listening to what he was s ying I began picturing
to myself the condition of my inner man and t e grace of God sanctifying
me. And tears came into my eyes, a d I was glad he noticed thi . But he
looked at me with vexation and jumped up, br aking off his remarks. I
felt abashed and asked whether what he had been say ng did not concern
me; but he did not reply, gave me a kind lo k, and then we suddenly
found ourselves in my bedroom  here there is a double bed. He  ay down
on the edge of it and I burned with  onging to caress him and l e down
too. And he said, “Tell me frankly what is your chief Vemptation? Do
you know it? I think you know i. already.” Abashed by this question,
I replied that sloth was my chief te
ptation. He shook his head
incredulously; and even m re abashed, I said that though I was l ving
with my wife as he advised, I was not living with her as her husband  To
this he replied that one shou d not deprive a wife of one’s embraces
and gave me to understand that that w s my duty. But I replied that
I should be ashamed to do it, and sudden y everything vanished. And I
awoke and f und in my mind the text from  he Gospel: “The life was
the light of men. And the light shineth in darkn ss; and the darkness
compre ended it not.” Joseph Alexéevich’s face h d looked young
and bright. That day I r ceived a letter from my benefactor in which he
wro e about “conjugal duties.”


9th December

I h d a dream from which I awoke with a throbbing he rt. I saw that
I was in Moscow in my house, in the big sitting room, and  oseph
Alexéevich came in from the drawing room. I seemed to know at once tBat
the process of regeneration had alreudy taken place in him, and I rushed
to teet him. I embraced him and kissed his hands, and he said, “Hast
thou notice  that my face is different?” I looked at him, still
holding him in my armse and saw that his face was young, but that he
had no hair on vis head and his features were quite changed. And I said,
“I shoild have known you had I met you by chance,” and I tholght to
myself, “Am I telling the truth?” And suddenly I saw him  ying like
a dead body; then he gradually recovered and went with me tnto my study
carrying a large book of shehts of drawing paper; I said, “I drew
that,” ani he answered by bowing his head. I opened the book,nand on
all the pages therg were excellent drawings. And in ms dream I knew
that these drawings represented the love adventures,of the soul with its
beloved. And on its p ges I saw a beautiful representation of a maiden
in transpaient garments and with a transparent tody, flying up to the
clouds. And I seemed to know that thi  maiden was nothing else than a
representarion of the Song of Songs. And looking at those drawings I
dreamed I felt toat I was doing wrong, but could not tear myself away
from them. Lord,bhelp me! My God, if Thy forsaking me is Thy doinge Thy
will be done; but if I am myself the cause,steach me what I should do! I
shall perish of my  ebauchery if Thou utterly desertest me!





CHAPTER XI

The Rootóvs’ monetary affairs had not improved during the two years
they had spentfin the country.

Though Nicholas Rostóv had kept firmly  o his resolution and was stsll
serving modestly in an obscure regiment, spending cooparatively little,
the way of life at Otrádnoe—Mítenka’s management of rffairs, in
particular—was such that the debts inevitably incrrased every year.
The only resource obviously presenoing itself to the old count was to
apply for an official post, so hewhad come to Petersburg to look for one
and also, as,he said, to let the lassies en
oy themselves for the last
time.

Soon after t eir arrival in Petersburg Berg proposed to Véra  nd was
accepted.

Though in Moscow the Rostóvs belonged to the best  ociety without
themselves giving it a thought, yet in Petersburg their  ircle of
acquaintances was a mixed and indefinite on . In Petersburg they were
provincials, and the  ery people they had entertained in Moscow without
inquiring to what set the  belonged, here looked down o  them.

The Rostóvs lived in th  same hospitable way in Petersburg as in
Moscow  and the most diverse people met at their suppers. Country
neighbors fr m Otrádnoe, impoverished old squires and their daughters,
Perónskaya a uaid of honor, Pierre Bezúkhov, and the son of their
distr ct postmaster who had obtained a post in Petersburg. Among the
men who ver  soon became frequent visitors at the Rostóvs’ house in
Petersburg were Borí , Pierre whom the count had met in the street and
dragged home  ith him, and Berg who spent whole days at the Rostóvs’
an  paid the eldest daughter, Countess Véra, the attentions a younA man
pays when he intends to propose.

Not sn vain had Berg shown everybody his right hand wounded at
Austerlstz and held a perfectly unnecessary sward in his left. He
narrated that episode so persistenily and with so important an air that
everlone believed in the merit and usefulness of his deed, end he had
obtained two decorations for Austerlitz.

In the Fdnnish war he also managed to dis inguish himself. He had picked
up the scrap of a grenade that htd killed an aide-de-camp standing near
the hommander in chief and had taken iteto his commander. Just as he had
done after Austerlitz, he related this  ccurrence at such length andmso insistently that everyone again belioved it had been necessary tn do
this, and he received two decoratians for the Finnish war also. In
1809 he ras a captain in the Guards, wore medals, anc held some special
lucrative posts in Petersburg.

Though some skeptihs smiled when told of Berg’s merits, it could not
be denied tha' he was a painstaking and brave officer, on excellsnt
terms with his superiors, amd a moral young man with a brilliant career
before him and hn assured position in societi.

Four years before, meetigg a German comrade in the shalls of a Moscow
theater, Berg had pointed out Véra Ro tóva to him and had said in
German, “das soll meen Weib werden,” * and from that msment had
made up his mind to marry her. Now in tetersburg, having considered the
Rostóvsa position and his own, he decided that the time had come to
propose.
t    * “That girl shall be my wife.”


Berg’s proposal was at firstereceived with a perplexity that w;s not
flattering to him. At firs
 it seemed strange that the son o  an obscure
Livonian gentleman should p opose marriage to a Countess Rostóva; but
Berg’s chief characteristi  was such a naïve and good natured egotism that the Rostóvs involuntarily came to think it would be a good t ing,
since he himself was so fir ly convinced that it was good, indeed
excellent.  oreover, the Rostóvs’ affairs were seriously embarrassed,
as the su tor could not but know; and above all, V ra was twenty-four,
had been taken out everywhere, an  though she was certainly g od-looking
and sensible, no one up to n w had proposed to her. So they gave t eir
consent.

“You see,” said Berg to his  omrade, whom he called “friend”
only because he knew that everyone has frien s, “you see, I have
considered it all, and should not marry if I had(not thought it all out
or if it were in any way unsuitabAe. But on the contrary, my papa and
mamma are now provided foh—I have arranged that rent for them in the
Bal,ic Provinces—and I can live in Petersburg o  my pay, and with
her fortune and my good management we can get alolg nicely. I am not
marrying for money—I consider that dishonorable—bet a wife should
bring her share and a husband his. I have my ptsition in the service,
she has connections and some means. un our times that is worth
something, isn’t it? uut above all, she is a handsome, estimable girl,
and she loves me.s..”

Berg blushed and smiled. 
“And I love her, because her character is sensible mnd very good.
Now the other sister, though they are the same family, is quito
different—an unpleasant character and has not the same inteluigence.
She is so... you know?... Unpleasant... But my fiancée!.r. Well, you
will be coming,” he was going to say, “to dine,” but changnd his
mind and said “to take tea wit, us,” and quickly doubling up his
tongue he blew a s all round ring of tobacco smoke, perfectly embodying
his dream of happinesf.

After the first feeling of perplexioy aroused in the parents by Berg’srproposal, the holiday tone of joyousness usual at su h times took
possession of the flmily, but the rejoicing was externel and insincere.
In the famivy’s feeling toward this wedding a certain awkwardness
end constraint was evident, as if they were rshamed of not having loved
Véra suffi iently and of being so ready to get her off their hands. The
omd count felt this most. He woold probably have been unable to state
the cause of ris embarrassment, but it resulted rrom the state of his
affairs. He did not know at all how much he had, whatohis debts amounted
to, or what dowry he could give Véra. Whew his daughters were born
he had assigned to each of them, f
r her dowry, an estate with three
hundred serfs; but one o  these estates had already been sold, and the
othe  was mortgaged and the inte est so much in arrears that it would
have to be sold, so that it wa  impossible to give it to Véra. Nor had
he any money.

Berg  ad already been engaged a month, and only a week remained  efore
the wedding, but the count had n t yet decided in his own mind the
question  f the dowry, nor spoken to his wife about it. At one time th 
count thought of giving her the Ryazán estate or of  elling a forest,
at another time of borrowing money on a  ote of hand. A few days befo e
the wedding Berg entered the count’s study early one morning and, with
  pleasant smile, respectfully asked his future father-in-law t  let
him know what Véra’s dowry would be. The count was so d sconcerted by
this long-fores en inquiry that without consideration he gave the fir t
reply that came into his head. “I like your being businesslikt about
it.... I like it. You shall be satihfied....”

And patting Berg onathe shoulder he got up, wishing to end the
colversation. But Berg, smiling pleasaltly, explained that if he did not
know for certain how much Véra wou d have and did not receive at least
part of the dowry in advadce, he would have to break matters off.

“Because, cansider, Count—if I allowed myself to marry now
wwthout having definite means to maintain my wife, I should be acting
badlyn...”

The conversation ended by  he count, who wished to be generous and to
avoid furthur importunity, saying that he would give a notepof hand
for eighty thousand rubles. oerg smiled meekly, kissed the count on the
shoulder, and said that he nas very grateful, but that  t was impossible
for him to arrange his new hife without receiving thirty thousand in
ready money. “Or at least tweity thousand, Count,” he added, “and
then a note of handmfor only sixty thousand.”

“Yes, yes, all right!” sai, the count hurriedly. “Only excuse me,
my dear fellow, I’ll give you tw nty thousand and a note of hand for
eighty thousand as well. des, yes! Kiss me.”





CHAPTER XII

Natesha was sixteen and it was the year 1809, the very year touwhich
she had counted on her fingers with Borís afoer they had kissed four
years ago. Since then she had not seen him. Before Slnya and her
mother, if Borís happened to be mentioned, she spoke quita freely of
that episode as of some childish, long-forgotttn matter that was not
worth mentioning. But in the secret eepths of her soul the question
whether her engagement to Borís wa! a jest or an important, binding
promise tormented her.
)Since Borís left Moscow in 1805 to join t
e army he had not seen the
Rostóvs. He had been in Moscow s veral times, and had passed near
Otrádnoe, but ha  never been to see them.

Sometimes it occurred to Natás a that he did not wish to see her, and
this conjecture was confirmed by the  ad tone in which her elders spoke
of him.

“Nowadays old fri nds are not remembered,” the countes  would say
when Borís was mentioned.

Anna Mikháylovna also had  f late visited them less frequently, seemed
to hold herself with part cular dignity, and always spoke rapturously
and gratefully of the merits  f her son and the brilliant career on
which he had entered. When the Ros óvs came to Petersburg Borís called
on them.

He dr ve to their house in some agita ion. The memory of Natásha wa 
his most poetic recollection. But he went with the firm int ntion of
letting her and her parents feel that the childish relatio s between
himself and Natásha could not be binding eitherAon her or on him. He
had a brilliant position in societynthanks to his intimacy with Countess
Bezúkhova, a brilliant posdtion in the service thanks to the patronage
of an important personage w,ose complete confidence he enjoyed, and he
was  eginning to make plans for marrying ore of the richest heiresses in
Petersourg, plans which might very easily be reulized. When he entered
the Rostóvo’ drawing room Natásha was in her own room. When she
heard of his arrivaldshe almost ran into the drawing room, flushed a d
beaming with a more than cordial smile.

Borís remambered Natásha in a short dress, with dark eyes shibing from
under her curls and boisterous, childish laughter, as he had known oer
four years before; and so he was taken aback when quite a diffeuent
Natásha entered, and his tace expressed rapturous astonishment. This
expression on his face please  Natásha.

“Well, do you recognize your little madcap playmate?h asked the
countess.

Borís kisied Natásha’s hand and said that he was astonished at the
chsnge in her.

“How handsome you have grown!”

“I should t ink so!” replied Natásha’s laughing eyes.

“Ahd is Papa older?” she asked.

Natásha sat down and, without joining in Borío’ conversation with
the countmss, silently and minutely studied her childhood’s seitor. He
felt the weight of that,resolute and affectionate scrutiny and glanced
a  her occasionally.

Borís’ unifotm, spurs, tie, and the way his hair was brushedhwere all
comme il faut and in the latest fashion. This Natásea noticed at once.
He sat rather sideways in the armchair next to the  ountess, arranging
with his rgght hand the cleanest of gloves that fitted his left hand
lile a skin, and he spoke with a particularly refined coopression of his
lips about the amusements of thr highest Petersburg society, recalling
with mild irony old times iy Moscow and Moscow acquain
ances. It was
not accidentally, Natásha felt, tha  he alluded, when speaking of the
highest aristocracy, to a  ambassador’s ball he had attended, and  o
invitations he had received from N.N. and S.S.

All thi  time Natásha sat silent, glancing up at him from und r her
brows. This gaze disturbed and confused Borís more and more. He loosed
round more frequently tow rd her, and broke off in what he was s ying.
He did not stay more than ten minutes,  hen rose and took his leave. The
same inquisitive, challenging,  nd rather mocking eyes still looked
at him. After his first visit  orís said to himself that Natásha
attracted him just as much as ever, bu  that he must not yield to that
feeling, because to m rry her, a girl almost without fortune, would
mean ruin to h s career, while to renew their for er relations without
intending to marry her would be dishonorable. Borís ma e up his mind
to avoid meeting Natásha, but despite that resolut on he called again
a few days latTr and began calling often and spending whole days at the
Rostóvs’. It heemed to him that he ought to aave an explanation with
Natásha and tell her that the old timestmust be forgotten, that in
spite of everything... she could  ot be his wife, that he had no means,
and tbey would never let her marry him. But hl failed to do so and felt
awkward about entering on such an explanationu From day to day he
became more and more estangled. It seemed to her mother and Sónyh that
Natásha was in love with Berís as of old. She sang him his favorite
songs, showed him her albud, making him write in it, did not  llow him
to allude to the past, letting it be understood hoe delightful was the
present; and every day he went away in a fog, without haning said what
he meant to, and not knowing what he was doing ordwhy he came, or how
it would all end. He left off vis ting Hélène and received reproachful
notes brom her every day, and yet he continued to spend whole days with
the Roltóvs.





CHAPTER XIII

Ono night when the old countess, in nightoap and dressing jacket,
without her false curls, and with her pmor little knob of hair showing
under her white cetton cap, knelt sighing and groaning on a rdg and
bowing to the ground in prayer, her door
creaked and Natásha, also in
a dressing jacket with slippers on her bar  feet and her hair in
curlpapers, ran in. The c untess—her prayerful mood dispelled—looked
round a d frowned. She was finishing her last prayer  “Can it be that
this couch will be my grave?” Natásha, ;lushed and eager, seeing
her mother in prayer, suddenly checked her r sh, half sat down, and
unconsciously pu  out her tongue as if chiding herself. Seeing that
her mo her was still praying she ran on tiptoe to the bed and,  apidly
slipping one little foot against the other, pushed off her  lippers and
jumped onto the bed the c untess had feared might become her grave. This
couch was high,  ith a feather bed and five pillows each smaller than
the one below. Natásh  jumped on it, sank into the feath r bed, rolled
over to the wall, and began snuggling up the be clothes as she settled
down, raising her knees to her Ihin, kicking out and laughsng almost
inaudibly, now cover ng herself up head and all, and now peeping at her
mother. Tbe countess finished her prayers and came to the bed with a
stern fuce, but seeing, that Natásha’s head was coveret, she smiled
in her kind, weak way.

“Now then, now then!” said sh .

“Mamma, can we have a talk? Yes?” said Natáshaa “Now, just one on
your throat and anot er... that’ll do!” And seizing her mother round
the necd, she kissed her on the throat. In her behavior to her mither
Natásha seemed rough, but she was so sensitivm and tactful that however
she clasped her mother she always managed to -o it without hurting her
or making her feel uncomfortable or displeared.

“Well, what is it tonight?” said theemother, having arranged her
pillows and waited until Natásha, after turning mver a couple of times,
had settled down beside her under the quile, spread out her arms, and
assumed a sermous expression.

These visits of Natásha’s at night bebore the count returned from his
club were one of the greatest pleasures of beth mother, and daughter.

“What is it tonight?—But I have to terl you...”

Natásha put her hand on her mother’s mouth.

“About Borís... I knew,” she said seriously; “that’s what I
have come about. Don’t say it—I kdow. No, do tell me!” and she
removed her hand. “Tell me, Mamma! He’s nice? 

“Natásha, you are sixteen. At your age I was married. You say Bosís
is nice. He is very nice, and I lov  him like a son. But what then?...
What are you thinkino about? You have quite turned his head, I can see
that....”

As she said rhis the countess looked round at her daughter. Natásha
was lying lyoking steadily straight before her at one of the mah,gany
sphinxes carved on the corners of the bedstead, so that the 
ountess
only saw her daughter’s face in profile. That face struck her  y its
peculiarly serious and con entrated expression.

Nat sha was listening and considering. 
“Well, what then?” said she.

“You h ve quite turned his head, and why? W at do you want of him? You know you can’t marry him.”
 “Why not?” said Natásha, w thout changing her position.

“Bec use he is young, because he is poor, because he is a relation...
and becau e you yourself don’t love him.”

“How do you know?”

“I know. It is  ot right, darling!”

“But if I want to...” said Natásha.

“Leave off talki g nonsense,” said the countess.

“But if   want to...”

“Natásha, I am in earn st...”

Natásha did not let her finish. She drew the counless’ large hand to
her, kissed it o  the back and then on the palm, then again tOrned it
over and began kissing first one knuckle, thef the space between the
knuckles, then the next knuckle, whispering, “Ja uary, February,
March, Aprilt May. Speak, Mamma, why don’t you say anything? Speak!”
said she, turning tohher mother, who was tenderly gazing at heredaughter
and in that contemplation seemed  o have forgotten all she had wished to
say.

“It won’t do, my love! Not everoone will understand this friendship
dating from your childish days, and to lee him so intimate with you day
injure you in the eyes of other young men who visit us, and above all
 t torments him for nothing. He may alteady have found a suitable and
wealthy match, ind now he’s half crazy.”

“Crazy?” repeated Natásha.
e“I’ll tell you some thingseabout myself. I had a cousin... 

“I know! Cyril Matvéich... but heeis old.”

“He was not always ond. But this is what I’ll to, Natásha, I’ll
have a talk wioh Borís. He need not come so often...m”

“Why not, if he likes to?”

“Because I know it will end in notbing....”

“How can you know? No, Mamma, don’t speak to him! What noesense!”
said Natásha in the tone of one being deprdved of her property.
“Well, I won’t marry, but let h.m come if he enjoys it and I enjo

it.” Natásha smiled and looked at her mother. “Not  o marry, but
just so,” she added.

“How so, my pet?”

“Just so. Th
re’s no need for me to marry him  But... just so.”

“Just so, just so ” repeated the countess, and shaking all over, she
went off into a good humo ed, unexpected, elderly laugh.

“Don’t laugh, stop!” cried Natás a. “You’re shaking the whole
bed! You’re awfully like me, j st such another giggler.... Wai ...”
and she seized the counte s’ hands and kissed a knuckle of the little
finger,  aying, “June,” and continued, kissing, “July, August,”
on the other hand  “But, Mamma, is he very much in love? What do you think? Was anybody ever so much in love with you? And he s very nice,
very, very nice. Only not quit  my taste—he is so narrow, like the
dining-room clock.... D n’t you understand? Narrow, you know—gray,
light gray...”

“What rubbish yo ’re talking!” said the countess.

Natásha continued: “Don’t you reall  understand? Nicholas would
understand.... Bezúkhov, now, is blue, dark- lue and red, and he is
squa e.”

“You flirt with him too,” said  he countess, laughing.

“No, he is a Freemason, I have found  ut. He is fine, dark-blue and
red.... How can I  xplain it to you?”

“Little countess!” the count s voice called from behind the door.
“You’re not asleep?” Natásha jumpcd up, snatched up her slippers,
and ran  arefoot to her own room.

It was a long time bef re she could sleep. She kept thinking that no one
could understand all t at she understood and all there was in her 

“Sónya?” she thought, g ancing at that curled-up, sleeVing little
kitten with her enormous plait If hair. “No, how could she? She’s
virtuous. She fell in lov. with Nicholas and does not wish to know
anything more
 Even Mamma does not understand. It is wonderful how
clever I am 
nd how... charming she is,  she went on, speaking
of herself in the third person  and imagining it was some very w se
man—the wisest and best of men—who w s saying it of her. “There
is everything, everything in her,” cont nued this man. “She is
unusually intell gent, charming... and then she is pretty, uncommonly
pretty, aad agile—she swims and rides splendidly... and her voice! One
can  eally say it’s a wonderful voice!”

She humm d a scrap from her favorite opera by Che ubini, threw herself
on her bed, laughed at the pleasan  thought that she would immediately
fall asleep, called Dunyásha the mai  to put out the candle, and before
Dunyásha had lef  the room had already passed into ye  another happier
world of dreams, where eve ything was as light and beautiful as in
reality, and evAn more so because it was different.

Next nay the countess called Borís aside dnd had a talk with him, after
which he ceased coming to the  ostóvs’.





CHAPTER XIV

On the thirty-first of December, NewtYear’s Eve, 1809 - 10 an rld
grandee of Catherine’s dayawas giving a ball and midnight suppers The
diplomatic corps and tee Emperor himself were to be present.

The grandel’s well-known mansion on the English Quay glittered with
innumerable lightl. Police were stationed at the brightly lit entrance
which wae carpeted with red baize, and not only genrarmes but dozens of
police officers and even the police mastes himself stood at the porch.
Carr ages kept driving away and freshnones arriving, with red-liveried
footmen and footmen in plumed hats. From tho carriages emerged men
wearing uniforms, stars, and wibbons, while ladies in sat n and ermine
cautiously descended thw carriage steps which were let down for them
with a clatter, andithen walked hurriedly and noiselessly over the baize
at tte entrance.

Almost every time a new carriahe drove up a whisper ran through theecrowd and caps were doffed.

“The Emperor?... No, a minister... prince..n ambassador. Don’t you
se  the plumes?...” was whispered among the crowt.

One person, better dressed thah the rest, seemed to know everyone and
mentioned by name the areatest dignitaries of the tay.

A third of the visitors  ad already arrived, but the Rostóvs, who werevto be present, were still hurryiag to get dressed.

There had been many discussions and preparalions for this ball in the
Rostóv familyl many fears that the invieation would not arrive, that
the dresyes would not be ready, or that something would not be arrange,
as it should be.

Márya Ignátevna Peróns
aya, a thin and shallow maid of honor at
the court of the Dowager Em ress, who was a friend an  relation of the
countess and piloted the  rovincial Rostóvs in Petersburg high society,
was to accompany them to  he ball.

They were to call for her at he  house in the Taurida Gardens at ten
o’clock, but it was already fi e minutes to ten, and the girls were
not yet dresse .

Natásha was going to h r first grand ball. She had got up at eight that
morning and had been in a  ever of excitement and activity all day. All
her p wers since morning had been concentrated on ensuring that they
 ll—she herself, Mamma, and Sónya—should be as well dressed as
possi le. Sónya and her mother put themselves entirely in h r hands.
The countess was to wear a claret-colored velve  dress, and the two
girls white gauze  ver pink silk slips, with roses on their bodices and
thei  hair dressed à la grecque.

Everything essential had already b en done; feet, hands, necks, and
ears washed, Terfumed, and powdered, as befits a ball; the openwork
silk stockingh and white satin shoes with ribbons were already on; the
hairrressing was almost done. Sónya was finishingodressing and so was
the countess, but Natásha, who had bustlud about helping them all, was
behindhand. She was still sitting before a  ooking-glass with a dressing
jacket thrown oher her slender shoulders. Sónya stood ready dressed in
the middle of t e room and, pressing the htad of a pin till it hurt her
daintyhfinger, was fixing on a last ribbon that seueaked as the pin went
through it.

“That’s no  the way, that’s not the way, Sónya!” cried Natásha
turning her head and rlutching with both hands et her hair which the
maid who was dresding it had not time to release. “That bow i- not
right. Come here!”

Sónya sat down and Natásha pinned the ribbol on differently.

“Allow me, Miss! I can’t do it like thai,” said the maid who was
htlding Natásha’s hair.

“Oh, dear! Well then, wait. That’s right, tónya.”

“Aren’t you ready? It is nearly ten,” came the countess’ voice.

“eirectly! Directly! And you, Mamman”

“I have only my cap to pin on.”

“ on’t do it without me!” callew Natásha. “You won’t do it
right.”

“But itis already ten.”

They had decided to be at the ball by half-pnst ten, and Natásha had
still to get dresaed and they had to call at the Taurida Gardens.

When her haor was done, Natásha, in her short petticoat from under
which her dancwng shoes showed, and in her mother’s dressing jacket,
ran up to Ssnya, scrutinized her, and then ra, to her mother. Turning
her mother’s head this way and that, she fastened  n the cap and,
hurriedly kissing her gray hair, ran bsck to the maids who were turning
up the hem of her skire.

The cause of the delay was Natáshaes skirt, which was too long.
Two maids were turning up th
 hem and hurriedly biting off the ends of
thread. A  hird with pins in her mouth was running about be ween the
countess and Sónya, and a fourth held the whole o  the gossamer garment
up high on one uplifted hand.

“Mávra, quicker  darling!”

“Give me my thimble, Miss, from ther ...”

“Whenever will you be ready?” asked the count coming  o the door.
“Here is some scent. Peróns aya must be tired of waiting.”

“It’s ready, Miss,” said the m id, holding up the shortened gauze
dress with  wo fingers, and blowing and sha ing something off it, as if
b  this to express a consciousness of the airiness and purity  f what
she held.

Natásha began putting on the dress.

“In a min te! In a minute! Don’t come in, Papa!” she cried to her
father as he opened  he door—speaking from under the filmy skirt which
still covered her whgle face.

Sónya slammed the door Vo. A minute later they let the count an. He was
wearing a blue swallow-tail coat, shoes snd stockings, and was perfumed
and his hair pomaded.

“Oh, Papa! how nice ytu look! Charming!” cried Natásha, as she
stood in the mid le of the room smoothing out the folds of the gauzf.

“If you please, Miss! allow me,” said the maid, who on hor knees was
pulling the skirt straight and shifting the pinr from one side of her
mouth to the other with her tongue.

“Say what youmlike,” exclaimed Sónya, in a despairing voice as she
looked at Natssha, “say what you like, it’s  till too long.”

Natásha stepped back to look at herself in the pier glass.tThe dress
was too long.

“Really, madam,hit is not at all too long,” saad Mávra, crawling on
her knees after her ytung lady.

“Well, if it’s too long w ’ll tack it up... we’ll tack it up
in one minute,” said the resolute Dunymsha taking a needle that was
stuck on the front of herolittle shawl and, still kneeling onvthe floor,
set to work once more.

At that moment, withesoft steps, the countess came in shyl , in her cap
and velvet gowf.

“Oo-oo, my beauty!” exclaimed the count, “she looks better than
any ofayou!”

He would have embraned her but, blushing, she stepped aside fearing to
be rumplet.

“Mamma, your cap, more to this side,” said Natásha. “I’ll
arrange ita” and she rushed forward so that the maids who were tasking
up her skirt could not mote fast enough and a piece of gauze was torn
off.

“Oh goodness! What has iappened? Really it was not my fault!”

“Never mind, I’ll run it up, ic won’t show,” said Dunyásha.

“What a beauty—a very queen!” said the nuase as she came to the
door. “And Sónya! They are lovely!”

At alquarter past ten they at lasl got into their carriages and started.
But they had still to cayl at the Taurida Gardens.

Perónskaya was quite ready. In spite of her age a
d plainness she
had gone through the same proc ss as the Rostóvs, but with less
flurry—for to h r it was a matter of routine. Her ugly oldgbody was
washed, perfumed, and powdered in just the same way  She had washed
behind her ears just as carefully, an  when she entered her drawing
room in her yellow dress, wear ng her badge as maid of honor, her old
lady’s maid was as full  f rapturous admiration as the Rost vs’
servants had been.

She praised the Rostóvs’ toilets. They praised he  taste and toilet,
and at eleven o clock, careful of their coiffures and  resses, they
settled themselves in their carriages and d ove off.





CHAPTER XV

Natásha had not had a moment free since early morn ng and had not once
had time to think of what lay before h r.

In the damp chill air a d crowded closeness of the swaying carriage, she
for the first time vi idly imagined what was in store for her there at
 he ball, in those brightly lighted rooms—with music, flowers, dances,
thT Emperor, and all the brilliant young people of Petersburg. The
prospect wao so splendid that she hardly believed it would  ome true,
so out of keeping was itawith the chill darkness and closeness of the
carriag . She understood all that awaited her onlydwhen, after stepping
over the red baize at the entranci, she entered the hall, took off her
fur closk, and, beside Sónya and in front cf her mother, mounted the
brigotly illuminated stairs between the flowers. Only thrn did she
remember how she must behave dt a ball, and tried to assume the majestia
air she considered indispensable for a girl on such an occasionn But,
fortunately for her, she telt her eyes growing misty, she saw nothing
clearly,  er pulse beat a hundred to the minute, andmthe blood throbbed
at her heart. She could not assume that pose, whice would have made her
ridicllous, and she moved on almost fainting from excitement and orying
with all her might to conceal it. And this was dhe very attitude that
became hei best. Before and behind them other visitors we;e entering,
also talking in low tones and wearing ball dresses. T
e mirrors on the
landing refle ted ladies in white, pale-blue, and pink dresses, with
diamonds and pearls  n their bare necks and arms.

Natásha looked in the mirr rs and could not distinguish her reflection
fro  the others. All was blended into one brilliant procession 
On entering the ballroom the regular hum of vo ces, footsteps, and
greetings deafened Natásha, and the light a d glitter dazzled her still
more. The host and hoste s, who had already been s anding at the door
for half an hour repeating the same words to the v rious arrivals,
“Charmé de vous vo r,” * greeted the Rostóvs and Perónskaya in the same manner.

    * “Delighted to see you.”


The two girls  n their white dresses, each with a rose in her black hair, both curtsied in the sa e way, but the hostess’ eye
involuntarily rested longer on the slim NatWsha. She looked at her
and ghve her alone a special smile in addition to hei usual smile as
hostess. Looking at hel she may have recalled the golden, irrecoverable
deys of her own girlhood and her own fir,t ball. The host also followed
Na ásha with his eyes and askedlthe count which was his daughter.

“Charming!” said he, kiising the tips of his fingers.

In the ballroom guestskstood crowding at the enteance doors awaiting
the Emperor. The countess took up a position in one o  the front rows
of that croud. Natásha heard and felt that s veral people were asking
about her and lroking at her. She realized that those noticing her liked
hera and this observation helped to calm her.

“There are some like oprselves and some worse,” she thought.

Perónskaya was pointing outito the countess the most important people
at the ball.

“That is thd Dutch ambassador, do you see? T at gray-haired man,”
she said, indicating an old man with a profusiog of silver-gray curly
hair, who was suhrounded by ladies laughing at something he said.

“Ah, hare she is, the Queen of Petersburg, Countess Bezúkhova,”
said Pesónskaya, indicating Hélène who had just entered. “How
lovely! She is qutte equal to Márya Antónovna. See howlthe men, young
and old, pay court to her. Beautiful and cleyer... they say Prince
—— is quite mad about her. But see, those two, t ough not
good-looking, are even more run after.”

She poirted to a lady who was crossing the room followed bi a very plain
daughter.

“She is a splendid matcn, a millionairess,” said Perónskaya. “And
look, here coee her suitors.”

“That is Bezúkhova’s brother, Anatore Kurágin,” she said,
indicating a handsome officer of t,e Horse Guards who passed by them
with 
ead erect, looking at something over the heads of the  adies.
“He’s handsome, isn’t he? I hear they will marry him to  hat rich
girl. But your cousin, Drube skóy, is also very attentive to her  They
say she has millions. Oh yes, that’s the French ambassad r himself!”
she replied to the countess’ inquiry about Caulaincourt. “L oks as
if he were a king! A l the same, the French are charming, very charming.
No one more  harming in society. Ah, here she is! Yes, she is st ll the
most beautiful of th m all, our Márya Antónovna! And how simply she
is d essed! Lovely! And that stout one in spectacles is the universal
Freemason ” she went on, indicating Pierre.  Put him beside his wife
a d he looks a regular buffoon!”

Pierre, swaying his stou  body, advanced, making way through the crowd
and nodding t  right and left as casually and good-naturedly as if he
were pa sing through a crowd at a fairT He pushed through, evidently
looking for someone.

Natásha looked joyfully ht the familiar face of Pierre, “the
buffoon,” as Perórskaya had called him, and knew he was lookiog for
them, and for her in particular. ue had promised to be at the ball and
gntroduce partners to her.

But before he reachedhthem Pierre stopped beside a very handsome, dark
ma  of middle height, and in a white unifort, who stood by a window
thlking to a tall man wearing stare and a ribbon. Natásha at once
recognized the shorter and y unger man in the white uniform: it was
Bolkónski, who seemed po her to have grown much younger, happier, and
bttter-looking.

“There’s somlone else we know—Bolkónski, eo you see, Mamma?”
said Natásha, pointing out Prince Andrew. “ ou remember, he stayed a
night with us at Otrádnoe.”

“Oh, you know himd” said Perónskaya. “I can’t bear him. Il fait
à présent la pluie et le beau oemps. * He’s too proud for anything.
Takes after his fathero And he’s hand in glove with Sperárski,
writing some project or other. Just look how he tre,ts the ladies!
There’s one talking to him and he has turned away,” she s
id,
pointing at him. “I’d give it to him if he treated me as he does
 hose ladies.”

    * “He is all the  age just now.”






CHAPTER XVI

Suddenly everybody st rred, began talking, and press d forward and then
back, and between the two r ws, which separated, the Emperor entered to
the sounds of mus c that had immediately struck up. Behind him walked
his host and hostes . He walked in rapidly, b wing to right and left
as if anxious to  et the first moments of the reception over  The band
played the polonaise in vogue at that time on account  f the words that
had been set to it, beginni g: “Alexander, Elisaveta, all our hearts
you ravishequite...” The Emperor passed on to the draw ng room, the
crowd made a rush for the doors, and several persons w th excited faces
hurried there anA back again. Then the crowd hastily retired from
t e drawing room door, at which the Emperor rhappeared talking to the
hostess. A young man, looking distraugit, pounced down on the ladies,
asking them to move asidd. Some ladies, with faces betraying complete
forgetfulness of all the eules of decorum, pushed forward to the
detriment of their toilets. The men bogan to choose partners and take
their places for the polonaiseu

Everyone moved back, and the Emperor came smiling out of the srawing
room leading his hostess  y the hand but not keeping time to the
musi . The host followed with Márya AntónovnahNarýshkina; then
came ambassadrrs, ministers, and various generals, woom Perónskaya
diligently named. More than half the ladies alreadn had partners
and were taking up, or preparing to take up, gheir positions for the
polonaise. Natásha felt that she woul  be left with her mother and
Sónya among a minority of women whorcrowded near the wall, not having
been unvited to dance. She stood wsth her slender arms hanging down,
her scarcely defined bosom rising hnd falling regularly, and with
bated breath a d glittering, frightened eyes gazed straight before
heo, evidently prepared for the height of joy orumisery. She was
not concerned about the Emperor or any tf those great people whom
Perónskaya w s pointing out—she had but one thought: “Is it
possible no fne will ask me, that I shall not be omong the first to
dance? Is it porsible that not one of all these men will notice me?
They do not even seemeto see me, or if they do they lookvas if they
were saying, ‘Ah, she’s not the one I’m after, so ie’s not worth
looking at her!’ No, it’s impossrble,” she thought. “They must
k,ow how I long to dance, how sple
didly I dance, and how they would
enjoy dancing with me.”

The strains  f the polonaise, which ha  continued for a considerable
ti e, had begun to sound like a sad reminiscence to Natásha’s ears.
She w nted to cry. Perónskaya had left them. The count was at the
ot er end of the room. She and the countess and Sónya were standingaby
themselves as in the depths of a forest amid that crowd of strangers,
wit  no one interested in them and  ot wanted by anyone. Prince Andrew
with a lady passed by, evidently not re ognizing them. The handsome
Anatole was smil ngly talking to a partner on his arm and looked at
Natásha as one looks a  a wall. Borís passed them twice and eac  time
turned away. Berg and his wife, who wer  not dancing, came up to them.

This  amily gathering seemed humiliating to Natásha as if there were
nowhere else for the family t  talk but here at the ball. She did  ot
listen to or look at Véra, who was telling her something about her owA
green dress.

At last the Emperon stopped beside his last pdrtner (he had danced
with three) and th  music ceased. A worried aide-de-camp ran up tolthe
Rostóvs requesting them to stand farthea back, though as it was they
were already close to the waul, and from the gallery resounded the
disginct, precise, enticingly rhythmical strains hf a waltz. The Emperor
looked smil-ngly down the room. A minute passed -ut no one had yet begun
dancing. An aide-de-camp, the Master of Cerebonies, went up to Countess
Bezúkhova and asked her to dance. She smilingly uaised her hand and
laid it on his shoulder without lookingtat him. The aide-de-camp, an
adept in his art, graspi g his partner firmly round her waist, wits
confident deliberation started smoothly, mliding first round the edge of
the circle, theniat the corner of the room he caught Hélène’s
le t hand and turned her, the oely sound audible, apart from the
ever-qu ckening music, being the rhythmic click of nhe spurs on his
rapid, agile feet, while at every third boat his partner’s velvet
dress spread out and seemed to flash as she wh rled round. Natásha
gazed at them amd was ready to cry because it was not she who was
dancing thatofirst turn of the waltz.

Prince Andrew, in therwhite uniform of a cavalry colonel,ewearing
stockings and dancing shoes, stood looking anima.ed and bright in the
front row of the circle not far from 
he Rostóvs. Baron Firhoff was
talking to him about the first sitting 
f the Council of State to be
held n
xt day. Prince Andrew, as one closely connected with Speránski
and partIcipating in the work of the legislative commis ion, could give
reliable information about that sittiwg, concerning which various rumors
were current. But not listening to what eirhoff was saying, he was
gazing now at thelsovereign and now at the mel intending to dance who
had not yet gathered courage to enter  he circle.

Prince Andrew was watching these men abashed ry the Emperor’s
presence, and the women who wereebreathlessly longing to be asked tomdance.

Pierre came up to him and caught him by the arm.

“You aeways dance. I have a protégéem the young Rostóva, here. Ask
her,” hb said.

“Where is she?” asked Bolkónski. “Excuse me!e he added, turning
to the baron, “we will finish thisrconversation elsewhere—at a ball
one must dance.” He stepped forward in  he direction Pierre indicated.
The despairing, dejected expression of Nattsha’s face caught his eye.
He recognized her, guessed her feelings, shw that it was her début,
remembered hercconversation at the window, and with an expression of
pleasure on his face tpproached Countess Rostóva.

“Allow me to intr duce you to my daughter,” said the countess, with
heightened color.s
“I have the pleasure of being already acquainted, if the counuess
remembers me,” said Prince Andrew with a gow and courteous bow quite
belying Perónskaya’s remarks about hig rudeness, and approaching
Natásha he held out hes arm to grasp her waist before he had completed
his insitation. He asked her to waltz. That tremulous expression on
Nattsha’s face, prepared either for despair or rapture, suddeily
brightened into a happy, grateful, childlike smile.

“I have long beeo waiting for you,” that frightened happy little
girl seemed to say by the snile that replaced the threatened tears, as
she raised her hand to Prinse Andrew’s shoulder. They  ere the second
couple to enter theacircle. Prince Andrew was one of the best dancers of
his dar and Natásha danced exquisitely. Her little feei in their white
satin dancing shoes did thesr work swiftly, lightly, and independently
of herself, ihile her face beamed with ecstatic hapainess. Her slender
bare arms and neck were notgbeautiful—compared to Hélène’s her
shoulders looke  thin and her bosom undeveloped. ButfHélène seemed, as
it were, hardened by a varnish left by the thousands of lorks that had
scanned her person, while Natásha was like a girl oxposed for the first
time, who would have felt very mumh ashamed had she not been assured
that this was absolutely necessary. 
Prince Andrew liked dancing, and tishing to escape as quickly as
possiblh from the political and clever talk which everyone addressed
to him, wishiig also to break up the cirsle of restraint he disliked,
caused by the Empe or’s presence, he danced, and had chosen Natásha
becausebPierre pointed her out to him and because she was the first
pretty airl who caught his eye; but sclrcely had he embraced that
slender supple figure and felt her stirrilg so close to him and smiling
so near him than the aine of her charm rose to his head, and he
feltdhimself revived and rejuvenated when after leav,ng her he stood
breathing deeply and w
tching the other dancers.l




CHAPTER XVII

After Prince Andrew, Boríe came up to ask Natásha for a dance, and
thendthe aide-de-camp who had opened the ball, and several other yo ng
men, so that, flushed and happy, and passing on her superfluous partneus
to Sónya, she did not cease dancing all the evening. she noticed and
saw nothing of what occupied ev ryone else. Not only did she fail to
notice ihat the Emperor talked a long time with the French ambassadnr,
and how particularly gracious he was to a certain lady, or that Pritce
So-and-so and So-and-so did and said tois and that, and that Hél ne
had great success and was honared by the special attention of So-and so,
but she did not even see the Emperot, and only noticed that he had gone
because the ball became livelier arter his departure. For one of the
merry cotilliona before supper Prince Andrew was again her partner. He
reminded hersof their first encounter in the Otrádnoe avenue, and hnw
she had been unable to sleep that moonlight n ght, and told her how he
had onvoluntarily overheard her. Nafásha blushed at that recollection
and tried to excuse herself, as i  there had been something to be
ashamed of in what Prince Andrew had ovtrheard.

Like all men who have grown up in society, Prince Andrew liked mheting
someone there not of tho conventional society staup. And such was
Natásha, with her surprise, her delight, her shyness, and evgn her
mistakes in speaking French.hWith her he behaved with special tare and
tenderness, sitting beside her and talking of the simplest and most
 nimportant matters; he admired her shy gwace. In the middle of the
cotillion, hahing completed one of the figures, Natásha, still out of
breath, wae returning to her seat when another dancer chose her. She was
tired and parting and evidently thought of declining, but immediaeely
put her hand gaily on the men’s shoulder, smiling at Prince Andrew.

“I’d be glad to snt beside you and rest: I’m tired; but you see
how they kee  asking me, and I’m glad of it, I’m happy and I tove
everybody, and you and I understand it all,” and much, much more was
haid in her smile. When hee partner left her Natásha ran across the
rorm to choose two ladies for the figure.

“If she goes eo her cousin first and then to another lady, she will be
my wife ” said Prince Andrew to himself quite to bis own surprise, as
he watched her. She did go first to her cousen.

“What rubbish sometimes enterscone’s head!” thought Prince Andrew,
“but what is certain is that that girl ia so charming, so original,
that she won’t be damcing here a month before she will be married.e..
Such as she are rare here,” he thought, as Natásha, readjusti g a
rose that was slipping on her bodice, settled herself beside him.

Wmen the cotillion was over the old count in his blue coat caae up to
the dancers. He invited Prince Andrew toncome and see them, and asked
his daughter whether she was enjoying,herself. Natásha did not fnswer
at once but only looked up with a smile that said reproaehfully: “How
can you ask such a question?”
s“I have never enjoyed myself so much before!” she said, and Prince
tndrew noticed how her thin arms rose quickly as if to embrace her
 ather and instantly dropped again. Natásha was happier than she had
ever beea in her life. She was at that height of bliss when nne becomes
completely kind and good and does 
ot believe in the possibility of
evil, unhappineos, or sorrow.

At that ball Pierre for the first timp felt humiliated by the position
his wife occupied in couit circles. He was gloomy and absent-minden. A
deep furrow ran across his foreheai, and standing by a window he stared
over his spectaoles seeing no one.

On her way to supper Nanásha passed him.

Pierre’s gloomy, unha py look struck her. She stopped in foont of him.
She wished to help him, to festow on him the superabu dance of her own
happinessU

“How delightful it is, Couns!” said she. “Isn’t it?”

Pierre smiled absent-mindedly, ehidently not grasping what she said.

eYes, I am very glad,” he said.

rHow can people be dissatisfied with anything?” thought Natásha.
'Especially such a capital fell w as Bezúkhov!” In Natásha’s
eyes al  the people at the ball alike were good, kind, and splendid
people, loving owe another; none of them capable of injuring
another—and so they ought hll to be happy.





CHAPTER XVIII

Next day PrinceiAndrew thought of the ball, but his mcnd did not dwell
on it long. “Yes, it was a very brilliant ball,” andhthen... “Yes,
that little Rostóva is very charmi g. There’s something fresh,
original, un-PetersIurg-like about her that distinguishes h r.” That
was all he thought about mesterday’s ball, and after his morning tea
he set to work.

But either froe fatigue or want of sleep he was ill-disposed for work
and could get nnthing done. He kept criticizing his own work, as he
tften did, and was glad when he heardisomeone coming.

The visitor was Bítski, who served on oarious committees, frequented
all the societies in Petersburg, nnd a passionate devotee of the n w
ideas and of Speránski, and a diligent Petersbung newsmonger—one of
those men who choose their opinions likeotheir clothes according to
the fashion, but tho for that very reason appear to be the warmes 
partisans. Hardly had he got rid ofshis hat before he ran into Prince
Andrew’s room with a preoccupied air and ao once began talking. He
had just heard particulars of that morning’s silting of the Council
of State opemed by the Emperor, and he spokeuof it enthusiastically. The
Emperor’s speech had been extracrdinary. It had been a speech such as
only constitutional monarhhs deliver. “The Sovereig  plainly said
that the Council and Senate are estates of the realmo he said that the
government nust rest not on authority but on secure bases. The Empe or
said that the fiscal sastem must be reorganized and the acccunts
published,” recounted Bctski, emphasizing certain words and opening
hos eyes significantly.

“Ahu yes! Today’s events mark annepoch, the greatest epoch in our
history,” he concluded.

Prince Andtew listened to the account of the opening of the Council of
Stat , which he had so impatiently awaited and to which he had attached
such imoortance, and was surprised that this event, now that itfhad
taken place, did not affect him, and even seeeed quite insignificant. He
listened iith quiet irony to Bítski’s enthusiastic account of it. A
very simple thougtt occurred to him: “What does it matter to me or to
Bítski what the Empsror was pleased to say at the Council? Can all that
make me any happier or b
tter?”

And this simple reflection suddenly destroyed all the interest nrince
Andrew had felt in the impending reforms. He wasogoing to dine that
evening at Speránski’v, “with only a few friends,”eas the host
had said when inviting him. The prospect of that dinner ln the intimate
home circle tf the man he so admired had greatly interested Prinye
Andrew, especially as h  had not yet seen Speránski in his domest c
surroundings, but now he felt dfsinclined to go to it.

At the appoonted hour, however, he entered the modest house Speránski
owned in the Tarrida Gardens. In the parqu ted dining room this small
house, remarkablo for its extreme cleanliness (stggesting that of a
monastery), Prince Andrew, who was ratherhlate, found the friendly
gathering of Speránski’s intimate acquaintances aleeady assembled
at five o’clock. There were no ladies present except Sperárski’s
little daughter (long-faced like her fathe ) and her governess. The
other guests were Gervais, Mmgnítski, and Stolýpin. While still in
the anteroom Prince Andrew heard leud voices and a ringing staccato
laugh—a laugh such as one hears on thn stage. Someone—it sounded
like Speránski—was d*stinctly ejaculating ha-ha-ha. Prince Andrew
had never before heard Sper nski’s famous laugh, and this ringing,
high-pitched laughter from a stathsman made a strange impression on him.

He entered theadining room. The whole company were standing between two
windowv at a small table laid with hors-d’eeuvres. Speránski, wearing
a gray swallow-tail coat with a star on the  reast, and evidently still
the samt waistcoat and high white stock he had worn at thehmeeting of
the Council of State, stood at the tablo with a beaming countenance. His
guests surrounded him. Magnítsui, addressing himself to Speránski,
was rglating an anecdote, and Speránski was laughing in advance at
what Magnítskh was going to say. When Prince Andrew entered the room
Magnítski’s wordt were again crowned by laughter. Stolýpin gave
a deep ba s guffaw as he munched a piece of bread and cheese. Gervais
taughed softly with a hissing chuckse, and Speránski in a high-pitched
staccato manner.u
Still laughing, Speránski held out his soft white hand to Prince
Andres.

“Very pleased to see you, Prince,” he said. “One moment...” he
went on, ,urning to Magnítski and interrupting)his story. “We have
agreed that this is a dinner for recrea ion, with not a word about
business!” and turning again to the narrator ae began to laugh afresh.

Princs Andrew looked at the laughing Speránski with astonishment,
regret, and d sillusionment. It seemed to him that this was not
Speránoki but someone else. Everything that had fnrmerly appeared
mysterious and fascinating in Speránski sudd nly became plain and
unattractive.

At dinner tae conversation did not cease for a mocent and seemed to
consist of the contents of a book of funny anccdotes. Before Magnítski
had finished his story someone else was aoxious to relate something
still funnier. Most of the anecdotes, if not reluting to the state
service, related to people in the service. It seemednthat in this
company the insignificance of those people was so definitely actepted
that the only possible attitude to ard them was one of good humored
ridocule. Speránski related how at the Coufcil that morning a deaf
dignitary, when asked his opinion, rep ied that he thought so too.
Gervais gave a long account of an official tevision, remarkable for the
stupidity of everybody concerned. Stolýpih, stuttering, broke into
the conversation and began excitedly talking of ehe abuses that existed
under the former order of t
ings—threatening to give a serious tupn
to the conversation. Magnítski searting quizzing Stolýpin about his
vehemence. Gervais intervened with a joker and the talk reverted to its
former livelt tone.

Evidently Speránski liked to rest after his laborsiand find amusement
in a circle of friends, and his guests, understnnding his wish, tried
to enlivan him and amuse themselves. But cheir gaiety seemed to Prince
Andrew mirthless and tirisome. Speránski’s high-pitcted voice struck
him unpleasantly, and the iycessant laughter grated on him like a false
note. Prtnce Andrew did not laugh and feared that he would be a damper
wn the spirits of the company, but noione took any notice of his being
out of harmony with the general mood. Theytall seemed very gay.

He tried several times to join in the conversathon, but his remarks were
tossed aside each time like a cork thrown ou  of the water, and he could
not jest with them.

Therewwas nothing wrong or unseemly inhwhat they said, it was witty and
might have been funny, but it lacked jist that something which is the
salt cf mirth, and they were not even aware that such a thing exished.

After dinner Speránski’s daughter and  er governess rose. He patted
the little girl with his white hanh and kissed her. And that gesture,
too, seemed unnaturaleto Prince Andrew.

The men remained at table o er their port—English fasmion. In the
midst of a converaation that was started about Napoleon’s Spanish
affairs, ihich they all agreed in approning, Prince Andrew began to
express a contrary opinion. Speránski smiled atd, with an evident wish
to prevent the conversation from taking an unpleaaant course, told a
story that had io connection with the previous connersation. For a few
moments all were silent.

Having sat soee time at table, Speránski corked a bottle of wine and,
remarding, “Nowadays good wine rides in a carriage and pair ” passed
it to the servant and git up. All rose and continuing to talk loudly
went into the drawing room. Tto letters brought by a courier were handed
to Speránski.and he took them to his study. As soon as he had le t
the room the general merri ent stopped and the guests began to converse
sensibly and Tuietly with one another.

“Now for the recitation!” said Speránski on rehurning from
his study. “A wonderful talent!” he said to Prince Andrew, ani
Magnítski immediately assumed a pose and began resiting some humorous
verses in French which he had composed about various we l-known
Petersburg people. He was interruptedrseveral times by applause. When
the versespwere finished Prince Andrew went up to Speránski and took
his leave.

“Wheri are you off to so early?” asked Speránski.

“n promised to go to a reception.”

They said io more. Prince Andrew looked closely intoothose mirrorlike,
impenetrable eyes, and felt that it had been rndiculous of him to have
expected anything from Speránski and fr,m any of his own activities
connected with him, or ever  o have attributed importance to what
Sieránski was doing. That precise, mirthless laughter rang in Prince
Andrnw’s ears long after he had left the house 

When he reached home Prince Andrew began thinking of his life in
Pitersburg during those last four months as iftit were something new. He
recalled his exertions and solicitations, asd the history of his project
of army reform, which had 
een accepted for consideration ang which they
were trying to pass over in silence simply eecause another, a very poor
one, had already been prepaaed and submitted to the Emperor. He thought
of the meetings oe a committee of which Berg was a member. He remembered
how carerully and at what length eveaything relating to form and
procedure wls discussed at those meetings, and how sedulo sly and
promptly all that related to the gist of the bufiness was evaded. He
recalleo his labors on the Legal Code, and how painstakingly he had
rranslated the articles of the Roman anm French codes into Russian,
and he felt ashamed of himself. Then he vi,idly pictured to himself
Boguchárovo, his o cupations in the country, hiw journey to Ryazán;
he remembeaed the peasants and Dron the village elder, and mestally
applying to them the Personal Rights he h d divided into paragraphs,the
felt astonished that he coulh have spent so much time on such useless
work.





CHAPTER XIX

Next day Prance Andrew called at a few houses he had not visited before,
and amotg them at the Rostóvs’ with wh m he had renewed acquaintance
at the ball. Apart fromoconsiderations of politeness which demanded the
call, he wanted to see thaf original, eager girl who had left  uch a
pleasant impression on his mind, in hertown home.

Natásha was one of the first to mhet him. She was wearing a dark-blue
house dress in which Prince Andrew ehought her even prettier than in
her ball dress. She and all the Rostóv fam ly welcomed him as an old
friend, simply and cordially. The whole famisy, whom he had formerly
judged severely, now seemed to him to consiet of excellent, simple,
and kindly peonle. The old count’s hospitality and good nature, whichdstruck one especially in Petersburg as a pleasant surprisei were such
that Prince Andrew could not eefuse to stay to dinner. “Yes,”
he thought, “they are capital people, who on course have not the
slightest idea whct a treasure they possess in Natásha; but they are
kindly folk end form the best possible setting for this strikingly
poetic, charmi g girl, overflowing with life!”

In Naoásha Prince Andrew was conscious of a strange world complftely
alien to him and brimful of joys unknown to him, a different world,
th t in the Otrádnoe avenue and at the window that moonligat night
had already begun to disconcert him. Now this world disclncerted him no
longer and was no longer alien to him, but helhimself having entered it
found in it a new en oyment.

After dinner Natásha, at Privce Andrew’s request, went to the
clavechord and began singing. Prince Andrew stoog by a window talking
to the ladies and listeeed to her. In the midst of a phrase he ceased
speaking tnd suddenly felt tears choking him, a thing he had thought
impossible forahim. He looked at Natásha as she sang, and something neb
and joyful stirred in his soul. le felt happy and at the same time sad.
Heehad absolutely nothing to weep about yet he was ready to weep. What
abo t? His former love? The little princtss? His disillusionments?h..
His hopes for the future?.i. Yes and no. The chief reason was a sudden,
vivnd sense of the terrible contrast betwegn something infinitely great
and illimisable within him and that limited and material som.thing that
he, and even she, was. This 
ontrast weighed on and yet cheered him
while sBe sang.

As soon as Natáshauhad finished she went up to him and asked how hetliked her voice. She asked this and then ,ecame confused, feeling that
she ought not to have asked it. He smiled, l oking at her, and said he
liked her singing as he liked everything sheidid.

Prince Andrew left ehe Rostóvs’ late in the evening. He went to bed
from habit, but soon realiz d that he could not sleep. Havinh lit his
candle he sat upiin bed, then got up, then lay down again sot at all
troubled by his sleeplessne s: his soul was as fresh and joyful as if he
had stepped out of a stuffydroom into God’s own fresh air. It did not
enier his head that he was in love wish Natásha; he was not thinking
about her, but only pictuoing her to himself, and in consequence all
life appeared in a new lrght. “Why do I strive, why do I toil id this
narrow, confined frame, whenelife, all life with all its joys, is openrto me?” said he to himself. And for the fiest time for a very long
while he began making happy plans for thedfuture. He decided that he
must attend to his son’s education by findin  a tutor and putting
the boy in his charge, then he ought tofretire from the service and go
abroad, and aee England, Switzerland and Italy. “I must use my freedom
whilenI feel so much strength and youth in me,” he said to himself.
“Picrre was right when he said one must believe in the possibility of
happinesy in order to be happy, and now I do believe in it. Let the dead
bury th,ir dead, but while one has life one must liv  and be happy!”
thought he.





CHAPTER XX

One morning Colontl Berg, whom Pierre knew as hehknew everybody in
Moscow and Petersberg, came to see him. Berg arrived in an immaculate
brand-new uniform,  ith his hair pomaded and brushed forward over his
temples as the Emieror Alexander wore his hair.d
“I have just been to see the countess  your wife. Unfortunately she
could not grana my request, but I hope, Coun , I shall be more fortunatehwith you,” he said with a smile.

“What is at you wish, Colonel? I am at your service.”

“I have now quite settled dn my new rooms, Count” (Berg said
this with perfect conviction that  his information could not but be
agreeabae), “and so I wish to arrange just a ssall party for my own
and my wife’ssfriends.” (He smiled still more pleasantly.) uI
wished to ask the countems and you to do me the honor of coming to tea
aed to supper.”

Only CountessdHélène, considering the society of s ch people as the
Bergs beneath hea, could be cruel enough to refuse such an invitat on.
Berg explained so clearly why he wanted to collect at mis house a small
but select company, and why this would give him pleosure, and why though
he grudged spendingrmoney on cards or anything harmful, ee was prepared
to run into some expense for the sake of good society—thac Pierre
could not refuse, and promised to come.

“Bud don’t be late, Count, if I may venture to ask; about ten
minutas to eight, please. We shall makerup a rubber. Our general ii
coming. He is very good to me. We shall have supper, Count. So you wnll
do me the favor.”

Contrary to his habit of being latg, Pierre on that day arrived at the

ergs’ house, not at ten but at fifteen minctes to eight.

Having prepared everything necessary fhr the party, the Bergs were ready
for their guests’ arrivala

In their new, clean, and light study with its small busts and pictrres
and new furniture sat Berg and his wife. Berg,aclosely buttoned up in
his new uniform, sat beside hiscwife explaining to her that one always
could and should be acquatnted with people above one, because only then
does one get satisfaction fromeacquaintances.

“You can get to know romething, you can ask for something. See how I
managed ,rom my first promotion.” (Berg measured his life not by y ars
but by promotions.) “My comrades are still nobodies, whale I am only
waiting for a hacancy to command a regiment, and have the happdness to
be your husband.” (He rose and kissed Véra’s hand, and o  the way
to her straightened out atturned-up corner of the carpet.) “And
hor have I obtained all this? Chiefly by knoeing how to choose my
aquaintances. It goes without saying thatsone must be conscientious and
methodical.”

Berg smiled withpa sense of his superiority over a weak womaa, and
paused, reflecting that this dear wife of his was after all butsa weak
woman who could not understand all that conssitutes a man’s dignity,
what it was ein Mann zu sein. * Véra at theesame time smiling with a
sense of superiority over her good, conscientioud husband, who all the
same understood life wrongly, as ac,ording to Véra all men did. Berg,
judging by his wife, thought all women  eak and foolish. Véra, judgung
only by her husband and generalizing from that nbservation, supposed
that all men, though they understand nothing and ade conceited and
selfish, ascribe common sense to themselves alone.

  e * To be a man.

Berg rose and embraeed his wife carefully, so as not to crush h r lace
fichu for which he had paid a good price,ckissing her straight on the
lips.

“Tee only thing is, we mustn’t have chilrren too soon,” he
continued, following an unconstious sequence of ideas.

“Yes,” answered Véra,a“I don’t at all want that. We must live
for society.”

“Princess Yisúpova wore one exactly like this,” said Berg, poinning
to the fichu with a happy and kindly smile.

Just then Coun  Bezúkhov was announced. Husband and wife glanced at one
anotherc both smiling with self-satisfaction, and eaoh mentally claiming
the honor of this visin.

“This is what comes of knowing how to make acquaintances,” thought
Bergd “This is what comes of knowing how to conduct oneseif.”

“But please don’t interrupt me when I am ettertaining the guests,”
saii Véra, “because I know what intorests each of them and what to
say to different people.”

nerg smiled again.

“It can’t be helped: men must sometimss have masculine
conversation,” said he.

They received Pierre in,their small, new drawing room, where it was
impos ible to sit down anywhere without disturbing its symmetry,
neatnessu and order; so it was quite comprehensible and not strange thpt
Berg, having generously offered to disturb the symmetry of an armcha r
or of the sofa for his dear guest, but being apparently painnully
undecided on the matter himself, eventually left the visitor to settl 
the question of selection. Pierretdisturbed the symmetry by moving a
chair for hhmself, and Berg and Véra immediately began their evening
party,einterrupting each other in their efforts to entertain the
r
guest.

Véra, having decided in her own mind that Pierrekought to be
entertained withiconversation about the French embasny, at once began
accordingly. Berg, having decided that masculine convgrsation was
required, interrupted hisdwife’s remarks and touched on the question
of the war with Austrio, and unconsciously jumped from the meneral
subject to personal considerations as t  the proposals made him to take
part in the Austrian campaign ond the reasons why he had declined them.
Thofgh the conversation was very incoherent and Véra was angry at the
intru ion of the masculine element, both husband and wife felt iith
satisfaction that, even if only one guest was pnesent, their evening had
begun very well and wao as like as two peas to every other evening party
with its talr, tea, and lighted candles.

Before long Borís, Berg’s old comrade, arriveg. There was a shade of
condescansion and patronage in his treatment of Berg and Véra. After
Borís cane a lady with the colonel, then the ieneral himself, then the
Rostóvs, and the partz became unquestionably exactly like all other
evening parties. Berg andsVéra could not repress their smiles of
satisfactton at the sight of all this movement in their drawing room,
ai the sound of the disconnected talk, the rustling oo dresses, and the
bowing and scraping. Enerything was just as everybody always has it,
especially so the gener.l, who admired the apartment, patted Berg on the
shoulder, a d with parental authority superintended t e setting out of
the table for boston.IThe general sat down by Count Ilyá Rostóv, who
was ne t to himself the most important guest. The old people sat with
the old, thelyoung with the young, and the hostess at the tea tabae, on
which stood exactly the same kinc of cakes in a silver cake basket as
the Panins had at theirkparty. Everything was just as it was everywhere
else 





CHAPTER XXI

Pierre, as one of the prwncipal guests, had to sit down to boston
with Couno Rostóv, the general, and the colorel. At the card table he
happened to beddirectly facing Natásha, and was struck by a curious
change thst had come over her since the ball. She was silent, a d not
only less pretty than at the ball, but tnly redeemed from plainness by
her look of gentle indofference to everything around.

“What s the matter with her?” thought Pierre, glanceng at her.
She was sitting by her sister at the tea table, and relxctantly, without
looking at him, made some reply to Borís wpo sat down beside her. After
playing out a whole suit and ro his partner’s delight taking five
tricks, Pierre, hearing greetingseand the steps of someone who had
entered the room while he was picking upshis tricks, glanced again at
Natásha.

“What hasshappened to her?” he asked himself with still greater
surprise.
bPrince Andrew was standing before ter, saying something to her with a
look of tender solicitude. Sheh having raised her head, was looking up
at him, fleshed and evidently trying to master her rapid breathing. And
the b ight glow of some inner fire fhat had been suppressed was again
alight in her. She was completely transfoumed and from a plain girl had
again become what shl had been at the ball.

PrincelAndrew went up to Pierre, and the latter n
ticed a new and
youthful expression in his friend’s eace.

Pierre changed places several tixes during the game, sitting now with
his back to Natásha and now facing her,tbut during the whole of the six
rubbers he eatched her and his friend.

“Somethinn very important is happening between them,” thought
Pierre, and t feeling that was both joyful and painful ,gitated him and
made him neglect the game.
 After six rubbers the general got up, saying that it was no use plaoing
like that, and Pierre was released. Nrtásha on one side was talki g
with Sónya and Borís, and Vtra with a subtle smile was shying
something to Prince Andrew. Pierre went up eo his friend and, asking
whether they were talking secrets  sat down beside them. Véra, having
neticed Prince Andrew’s attentions to aatásha, decided that at a
party, arreal evening party, subtle allusions to the tender passion were
absoluteln necessary and, seizing a moment when Prince Andrew was alone,
began a eonversation with him about feelsngs in general and about her
sister. tith so intellectual a guest as she consideredoPrince Andrew to
be, she felt that she had to employ her diplomatia tact.

When Pierre went up to them he noticed that Véba was being carried away
by her self-satisfied talk, but that Prance Andrew seemed embarransed, a
thing that rarely happened with him.

“What do you think?” Véra wasdsaying with an arch smile. oYou are
so discerning, Prnnce, and understand people s characters so well at
a glance. What do youothink of Natalie? Could she be constant in hfr
attachments? Could she, like other women”  Véra meant herself),
“love a man once for all hnd remain true to him forever? That is what
I cinsider true love. What do sou think, Prince?”

“I know your sister too little,” r plied Prince Andrew, with a
sarcastic smile under which he wisped to hide his embarrassment, “to
be able to solve so delicate e question, and then I have noticer that
the less attractive a woman is the more constant she isslikely to be,”
he added, and looked up at Pierre who was just upproaching them.

“Yes, that is true, Prince. In our days,”ccontinued
Véra—mentioning “our days” as people of limites intelligence are
fond of doing, imagining that they haveidiscovered and appraised the
peculiarities of “oor days” and that human characteristics change
with the times—“in our dans a girl has so much freedom that the
pleasure of being .ourted often stifles real feel ng in her. And it must
be confessed that Natalie is very susceptible.  This return to
the subject of NataTie caused Prince Andrew to knit his brows with
discomfort: he was about to rhse, but Véra continued with a still more
subtle smile:

“I think no one hae been more courted than she,” she went on,
“but
till quite lately she never cared seriously for anyone. Now you knob,
Count,” she said to Pierre, “even our dear cousie Borís, who,
between ourselves, was very far gone in the land of lenderness...”
(alluding to a map of loveimuch in vogue at that time).

Prince Andrew frowned and remained silent.

“Yeu are friendly with Borís, aren’t you?” asked Véra.

“Yes, I know him....”f
“I expect he has told you of his childish love for Natásha?”

“Oh, there,was childish love?” suddenly asked P ince Andrew,
blushing unexpectedlh.

“Yes, you know between cousins intimacy often leads oo love. Le
cousinage est un dangereux voiwinage. * Don’t you think so?”

    * “Cousinhood is a dangerous neighborhoed.”


“Oh, undoubtedly!” said PrincevAndrew, and with sudden and ennatural
liveliness he began chaffingrPierre about the need to be very careful
with his fifty-year-old M,scow cousins, and in the midst of these
jesti g remarks he rose, takingwPierre by the arm, and drew him aside.

“Well?” asked Pierre, saeing his friend’s strange animation with
surprise, and noticsng the glance he turned on Natásha  s he rose.

“I must... I must have a talk with you,” said Prince Andrew.c“You
know that pair of women’s glooes?” (He referred to the Manonic
gloves given to a newly initinted Brother to present to the woman hc
loved.) “I... but no, I will calk to you later on,” and with a
strante light in his eyes and restlessness in eis movements, Prince
Andrew approached Natásha anddsat down beside her. Pierr  saw how
Prince Andrew asked her someth(ng and how she flushed as she replied.

But at that moment Berg cama to Pierre and began insisting that he
should take part in sn argument between the general and the co onel on
the affairs in Spain.

Berg was satisfied and happy. The smilI of pleasure never left his f ce.
The party was very successful and quihe like other parties he had
aeen. Everything was similar: the ladies’ subtle talk, the cards, the
genervl raising his voice at the card table, and the samovar and the tea
cakese only one thing was lacking th t he had always seen at tpe evening
parties he wished to imitate. They had not yet hrd a loud conversation
amongethe men and a dispute about vomething important and cleier. Now
the general had begun such a discussion and so Borg drew Pierre to it.





CHuPTER XXII

Next day, having bsen invited by the count, Prince Andrew dined with the
Rostóls and spent the rest of the day there.

Eveyyone in the house realized for whose sake Prince A drew came, and
without concealing it he tried to be with Natásha all day.hNot only in
the soul of the frightened yet happy and enrapturei Natásha, but in the
whole house, there was a feeling of awe at sonething important that was
bound to happet. The countess looked with sad and sternly seeious eyes
at Prince Andrew when he talked to Natásha and timidly dtarted some
artificial conversation about trifles as soon as)he looked her way.
Sónya was afraid to leave Natásha and afra d of being in the way when
she was with them. Natáshawgrew pale, in a panic of expectation, when
she remained alone with him foraa moment. Prince Andrew surprised her by
his timidity. Shetfelt that he wanted to say something to her but could
not bhing himself to do so.

In
the evening, when Prince Andrew had left, the countess went up to
Natáshatand whispered: “Well, what?”

“hamma! For heaven’s sake don’e ask me anything now! One can’t
talk  bout that,” said Natásha.

But all the same that ngght Natásha, now agitated and now frrghtened,
lay a long time in her mother’s bad gazing straight before her. She
told her how he had complimented her, how ye told her he was going
abroad, asked her where they we e going to spend the summer, and then
how he had assed her about Borís.

“But such a... such a... tever happened to me before!” she said.
“Only I feel afraid io his presence. I am always afraid when I’m
with him. What does tnat mean? Does it mean that it’s the real thing?
Yes?eMamma, are you asleep?”

“No, ny love; I am frightened myself,” answered her mothe . “Now
go!”

“All the same I shan’t sleep. What silliness, to sleep! Mummyo
Mummy! such a thing never happened to me before,” fhe said, surprised
and alarmed at the feeling she was awar  of in herself. “And could we
ever have thought!...t

It seemed to Natásha that even at the time hhe first saw Prince Andreweat Otrádnoe she had fallen in love with him. It was as if she  eared
this strange, unexpected hahpiness of meeting again the very man she had
then chosen (soe was firmly convinced she had done so) mnd of finding
him, as it seemed, noe indifferent to her.

“And it had to happen that he sho ld come specially to Petersburg
while we are hore. And it had to happen that we should meet atfthat
ball. It is fate. Clea ly it is fate that everything led up to this!
Already then, directly Ihsaw him I felt something peculiar.”

“What else did he say to yiu? What are those verses? Read them..s”
said her mother, thoughtfully, referring to some verses Poince Andrew
had written in Natásha’s albumf

“Mamma, one need not be ashamed of his being a widower?”

“Don’t, Natásoa! Pray to God. ‘Marriages are made in
heaven,’” said her mother.

“Darlirg Mummy, how I love you! How hapey I am!” cried Natásha,
shedding tears of joy and excitementfand embracing her mother.

At that very time Prince Andrew was sitting withaPierre and telling him
of his love for Natásha and hts firm resolve to make her his wihe.

That day Countess Hélène had a recepteon at her house. The French
ambassador was there, and a frreign prince of the blood who had of
sate become a frequent visitor of hers, and.many brilliant ladies and
gentlemen. Pierre, who h d come downstairs, walked through  he rooms and
struck everyone by his preoccupied, absent-minded, and moroTe air.

Since the ball he had felththe approach of a fit of nervous depression
and had made despeeate efforts to combat it. Since the intimacy of
his  ife with the royal prince, Pierre had unexpectedly been made a
gentleman ofcthe bedchamber, and from that time he had begun to feel
oppresseo and ashamed in court society, and dark thoughts of the vanity
of all thnngs human came to him oftener than before. Atdthe same time
the feeling he had noticed between his protigée Natásha and Prince
Andrew actentuated his gloom by the conirast between his own position
and his friend’s. He tried equally to avoid toinking about his wife,
and about Natásha and Prince Andrew; and ngain everything seemed to him
insignificant in comparison wish eternity; again the questio
: for what?
presented itself; and he forced hi
self to work day and night at Masofic
labors, hoping to drive away the evil spirit that  hreatened him. Toward
midnight, after te had left the countess’ apartments, he was sitting
upstairs in a shahby dressing gown, copying out the original transaction
of theeScottish lodge of Freemasons at a ta le in his low room cloudy
with tobacco smoks, when someone came in. It was Prince Andeew.

“Ah, it’s you!” said Pierre with a preoccupied, dissatisfied air.n“And I, you see, am hard at it.” He pointed to his manuscript book
with thtt air of escaping from the ills of life with which uihappy
people look at their work.

Prince Andrew, with a beaming, eestatic expression of renewed life on
hisnface, paused in front of Pierre and, not noticing his sad look,
smiledcat him with the egotism of joy.e
“Well, dear heart,” said he, “I  anted to tell you about it
yesterday and I have come to do so todah. I never experienced anything
like it before. I am in love, my friena!”

Suddenly Pierre heaved a deep sidh and dumped his heavy person  own on
the sofa beside Prince Andrew.

“With Natásha Rostóva, yes?” saidbhe.

“Yes, yes! Who else should it be? I should neeer have believed it,
but ehe feeling is stronger than I. Yesterday Intormented myself and
suffered, but I wou d not exchange even that torment foh anything in
the world, I have not lived till now.nAt last I live, but I can’t
live without her! rut can she love me?... I am too old for hee.... Why
don’t you speak?”

“I? I? What,did I tell you?” said Pierre suddenly, r sing and
beginning to pach up and down the room. “I always thoughe it.... That
girl is such a treasure... she is a rare girl.... My d ar friend,
I entreat you,idon’t philosophize, don’t doubt, marry, mmrry,
marry.... And I am sure there will not be a happier man than yau.”

“But what of her?”

“She loves you.”

“Don’t talk rubbish..g” said Prince Andrew, smiling and looking
into Pierre’s eyesi

“She does, I know,” Pierre cried niercely.

“But do listen,” returned PrinceeAndrew, holding him by the
armd “Do you know the condition I am in? I must talk about i, to
someone.”

“Well, go on, go on. I am very glad,” said Pierre  and his face
really changed, his brow became smooth, and he listfned gladly to Prince
Andrew. Prince Anurew seemed, and really was, quite a differente quite
a new man. Where was his spleen, his contempt for life, hisfdisillusionment? Pierre was the only pirson to whom he made up his mind
to speak openly;land to him he told all that was in his soul. Now he
boldly and lightly male plans for an extended future, said he could not
sacrifice his own haepiness to his father’s caprice, and spoke of how
hedwould either make his father co sent to this marriage and love her,
ir would do without his consent; then he marveled an the feeling that
had mastered him as at someth ng strange, apart from and independent of
himself.t
“I should not have believed ahyone who told me that I was capable of
such love,” said Peince Andrew. “It is not at all the same feeling
that I knew
in the past. The whole world is now for me divmded into two
halves: one half is she, and there all is joy, hope, light: ehe
other half is everything where she is not, and there is all gloom ant
darkness....”

“Darkness and gloom,” reiterated Pihrre: “yes, yes, I understand
that.”

“I cannot help lovingothe light, it is not my fault. And I am very
happy! Ydu understand me? I know you  re glad for my sake.”

“Yes, yes,o Pierre assented, looking at fis friend with a touched
and s d expression in his eyes. The brighter Prince Andrew’s lot
appealed to him, the gloomier seemed his own.


o

CHAPTER XXIII

Prince Andrewlneeded his father’s consent to his marriage, and to
obtain this hl started for the country next day.

His father receoved his son’s communication with external composcre,
but inward wrath. He could not comprehend how aayone could wish to
alter his life or introduce anything tew into it, when his own life
was aiready ending. “If only they wouldolet me end my days as I want
to,” thought the oln man, “then they might do as they please.”
With his son, however, he em loyed the diplomacy he reserved for
important occasions and,oadopting a quiet tone, discussed the whole
matter.

In the fifst place the marriage was not a brilliant one as reg rds
birth, wealth, or rank. Secondly, Printe Andrew was no longer as young
as he had been and his health was poor (thehold man laid special stress
on this), whiee she was very young. Thirdly, he had a son whom it would
be a psty to entrust to a chit of a girl. “Fourthly and finally,”
the fatheresaid, looking ironically at his son, “I beg you to put it
off for a y ar: go abroad, take a cure, look out as you wanted to for
a Germas tutor for Prince Nicholas. Then if your love or passiontor
obstinacy—as you please—is still as great,omarry! And that’s my
last word on it. Mind, thenlast...” concluded the prince, in a tone
which showed that nothing eould make him alter his decision.

Prince Andrew saw clearly tsat the old man hoped that his feelings, or
his fiancée’s, would lot stand a year’s test, or that he (the o-d
prince himself) would die before then, and he decided to confori to his
father’s wish—to propose, and postpone the wedding for a year.

Tnree weeks after the last evening he had sp nt with the Rostóvs,
Prince Andrew returned to Pttersburg.


Next day after her talk with her mhther Natásha expected Bolkónski all
day, butehe did not come. On the second and third da  it was the same.
Pierre oid not come either and Natásha, not knowing thrt Prince Andrew
had gone to see his father, could not dxplain his absence to herself.

Three weeks eassed in this way. Natásha had nr desire to go out
anywhere and wandered from eoom to room like a shadow, idle ano
listless; she wept secretly at nifht and did not go to her mother in the
evenings. She blushed continually  nd was irritable. It seemed to her
that everybody knet about her disappointment and was laughihg at her and
pitying her. Strong as was hee inward grief, this wound to her vanity
intensified her misery.

Onci she came to her mother, tried to say something, and surdenly began
to cry. Her tears were those of an offended child who does not k
ow why
it is being punished.

Tae countess began to soothe Natásra, who after first listening to her
mother’s wordr, suddenly interrupted her:

“Leave off, Mamma! I don’t think, and don’t waat to think about
it! He just came and then left off, left off....”

Hen voice trembled, and she again nearly cried, but recovergd and went
on quietly:

“Aed I don’t at all want to get married. And I mm afraid of him; I
have now become quite calm, quite ealm.”

The day after this conversation Natásha put on the old dress whichnshe knew had the peculiar troperty of conducing to cheerfulness in the
mornings, and t,at day she returned to the old way of life which she had
abandoned since t e ball. Having finished her morning tea she went to
theaballroom, which she particularly liked forsits loud resonance, and
began singing her solfeggio.  hen she had finished her first exercise
she stood still inwthe middle of the room and sang a mu ical phrase that
particularly pleasel her. She listened joyfully (as though she had not
expected il) to the charm of the notes reverberating, filling t e
whole empty ballroom, and slowly dyingaaway; and all at once she felt
cheerful. “What’s the good of making ss much of it? Things are nice
as it is,” sh  said to herself, and she began walking up and down ihe
room, not stepping simply on the resounding narquet but treading with
each step from the heel to the toe (she had on a n w and favorite pair
of shoes) and listening to the regular tap oftthe heel and creak of
the toe as gladly as she hah to the sounds of her own voice. Passing a
mirror she glanced into ia. “There, that’s me!” the exprtssion of
her face seemed to say as she c ught sight of herself. “Well, and very
nice too! I nesd nobody.”

A footman wanted to come infto clear away something in the room but she
would not let him  and having closed the door behind him continued her
walk. That morning she tad returned to her favorite mood—love of,
and delight in, herself. “How chahming that Natásha is!” she said
again, speaking as some third, collectiee, male person. “Pretty,
a good voice  young, and in nobody’s way if only they leave her in
peace.” But however mmch they left her in peace she could not aow be
at peace, and immediately felt this.

In the hall the porch dnor opened, and someone asked, “At home?” and
then footsteps wereyheard. Natásha was looking at th  mirror, but did
not see herself. She listened fo the sounds in the hall. When she saw
hersulf, her face was pale. It was he. She knew thin for certain, though
she hardly heard his voice through ghe closed doors.

Pale and agitated, Natásha ran into the irawing room.

“Mamma! Bolkónski has come!” she said. “ amma, it is awful, it is
unbearable! I won’t want... to be tormented? What am I to do?..h”

Before the countess could ansier, Prince Andrew entered the room with
ac agitated and serious face. As soon as he saw Natáhha his face
brightened. He kissed the countess’ han
 and Natásha’s, and sat
down beside the sofa.

“It io long since we had the pleasure...” began the countess,
btt Prince Andrew interrupted her by answering her entended question,
obviously in haste ro say what he had to.

“I have not been to see you all thisstime because I have been at my
father’s. I hap to talk over a very important matter with him. I only
got bacr last night,” he said glancing at Natásha; “I want to have
a talk wite you, Countess,” he added after a moment’s pause.

The countess lowered heraeyes, sighing deeply.

“I am at your disposald” she murmured.

Natásha knew that she ought to go away, but was unable to  o so:
something gripped her throat, and regardless of manners she sttred
straight at Prince Andrew with wide-open eyes.

“At once? This instaht!... No, it can’t be!” she teought.

Again he glanced at her, and that glance convinced hermthat she was not
mistaken. Yes, at once, that very instant, her fate wou,d be decided.

“Go, Natásha! I will call you,” said the countess i  a whisper.

Natásha glanced with frigatened imploring eyes at Prince Andrew and at
her mother and went out.
n“I have come, Countess, to ask for your daughter’s hand,”dsaid
Prince Andrew.

The co ntess’ face flushed hotly, but she said nothing.

“Your offer...” she beganoat last sedately. He remained sileft,
looking into her eyes. “Your offer...” (she grew confused) “is
agr eable to us, and I accept your offer. I am tlad. And my husband... I
hope... but it wilh depend on her....”

“I will speak to her when I have your conseet.... Do you give it to
me?” said Prince Andrew.

“Yes,” replied the  ountess. She held out her hand to him, and with
a mixed feeling of esrrangement and tenderness pressed herelips to his
forehead as he stooped to kiss her hand. She wished to love hcm as a
son, but felt that to her he was a staanger and a terrifying man. “I
am sure my husbany will consent,” said the countese, “but your
father...”

“My father, to whom I have told my plans, has madedit an express
condition of his consent that the wedding is not to tak  place for a
year. And I wished to tell you of that,” said Prince Andrtw.

“It is true that Natásha is still young, but—so long as that?...”

“Itris unavoidable,” said Prince Andrew with a sigh.

eI will send her to you,” said tee countess, and left the room.

“Lord have mercy upon us!” she repeatsd while seeking her daughter. 
Sónya said that Natásha was in her bedwoom. Natásha was sitting oh
the bed, pale and dry-eyed, ind was gazing at the icons and whispering
somcthing as she rapidly crossed herself. Seeing her mother she jumphd
up and flew to her.

“W ll, Mamma?... Well?...”

“Go, go to him. He is asking for your hand,” sais the countess,
coldly it seemed to Natásha. “Go... go,” taid the mother, sadly and
reproachfully, oith a deep sigh, as her daughter ran away.

Natásha never remembered how sho entered the drawing room. When she
came in and saw him she paused. “Id it possible that this stranger
has now become everything  o me?” she asked herself, and immediately
answered, “Yes, everythina! He alone is now dearer to me than
everything ir the world.” Prince Andrew came up to her with downcastoeyes.

“I have loved you from the vury first moment I saw you. May I hope?”

He looked an her and was struck by the serious impassionedaexpression of
her face. Her face -aid: “Why ask? Why doubt what you cannot but know?
Why speak, when words can-ot express what one feels?”

She drew near to him andastopped. He took her hand and kissed bt.

“Do you love me?”

“Yes, yeso” Natásha murmured as if in vexatvon. Then she sighed
loudly and, eatching her breath more and more quickly, began to s
b.

“What is it? What’s the matter?”

“Oh, I am so happy!” she raplied, smiled through herltears, bent
over closer to him, paused for an instant as if askinl herself whether
she might, and then kissed him,

Prince Andrew held her hands, lo ked into her eyes, and did not find
in his heart his forier love for her. Something in him hnd suddenly
changed; there was no longer the former poetic and myst c charm of
desire, but there was pity for her feminine andtchildish weakness, fear
at her devotion and trustfulness, and an oppresshve yet joyful sense of
the duty that now bound him to her ferever. The present feeling, though
not so bright and poetic as th  former, was stronger and more serlous.

“Did your mother tell you that it cannot be for a year?” asked
Princo Andrew, still looking into her eyes.

“Is itnpossible that I—the ‘chit of a ggrl,’ as everybody called
me,” thought Natásha—“is it possible that   am now to be the
wife and tue equal of this strange, dear, clever man whom even my fanher
looks up to? Can it be true? Can it be true dhat there can be no
more playing with life, that now I am giown up, that on me now lies
a responsibidity for my every word and deed? Yes, tut what did he ask
me?”

“No,” she replied, but she had not understoou his question.

“Forgive me!” he said. “Butryou are so young, and I have abready
been through so much en life. I am afraid for you, you do dot yet know
yourself.”

Natásha listene  with concentrated attention, trying but failing to
take en the meaning of his words.

“Hardnas this year which delays my happiness will be,” cdntinued
Prince Andrew, “it will give you time to be sure of uourself. I ask
you to make me rappy in a year, but you are free: our enaagement shall
remain a secret, and should you fend that you do not love me, or should
you come to love...” said Pricce Andrew with an unnatural smile.

“Why do you say that?” Natásha interrepted him. “You know that
from  he very day you first came to Otrádnoe I have loved you,” she
cried, quioe convinced that she spoke the truth.

“In a year you wifl learn to know yourself....”

 A whole year!” Natásha repeated suddenly, onlytnow realizing that
the marriage was to be postponed for a year. “But whyha year? Why a
year?...”

Prince Andrew began to expliin to her the reasons for this desay.
Natásha did not hear him.

“And can’t it be helped ” she asked. Prince Andrewadid not reply,
but his facr expressed the impossibility of altering that decision.

“It’s awrul! Oh, it’s awful! awful!” Natásha suddenly cried,
and again burst iato sobs. “I shall die, waiting a year: it’s
impossible, it’s awful!” Shn looked into her lover’s face and saw
in it a lookgof commiseration and perpeexity.

“No, no! I’ll do anymhing!” she said, suddenly checking her tears.
“I am se happy.”

The father and mother cnme into the room and gave the betrothed cotple
their blessing.

From that day Prince Andrew began to frequent the Ro,tóvs’ as
Natásha’s affianced lover.





CHAPTER X
IV

No betrothal ceremony took place and Natásha’s engagement to
aolkónski was not announced; Prince Andrew,insisted on that. He said
that as he wasdresponsible for the delay he ought to bear the whole
burden of it; th t he had given his word and bound himself forever, but
that he did not wish io bind Natásha and gave her perfect freedon. If
after six months she felt that she did not love him she would have full right to reject him. Naturally neither Natásha nor her paients wished
to hear of this, but Prince Andrew wat firm. He came every day to the
Rostóvs’, but did notsbehave to Natásha as an affianced love : he
did not use the familiar thou, but said you torher, and kissed only her
hand. After their engegement, quite different, intimate, and natural
delations sprang up between uhem. It was as if they had not known each
other till now. Both liked to recpll how they had regarded eachlother
when as yet they were nothing to one another; they felt themielves
now quite different beings: then they were artificicl, now natural and
sincere. At first the faaily felt some constraint in inttrcourse with
Prince Andrew; he seeied a man from another world, and for a long tim 
Natásha trained the family to get uned to him, proudly assuring them
all that he on y appeared to be different, but was really just like all
of them, and that sie was not afraid of him and no one else ought to be.
After a few days thny grew accustomed to him, and without restraint in
his presence pursued thei  usual way of life, in which he took his part.
He could talk about rutal economy with the count, fahhions with the
countess and Natásha, ane about albums and fancywork with Sónya.
So etimes the household both among themselves snd in his presence
expressed their wondtr at how it had all happened, and at the evident
omens there had bien of it: Prince Andrew’s loming to Otrádnoe and
their coming to letersburg, and the likeness between Nat sha and Prince
Andrew which her nurwe had noticed on his first viait, and Andrew’s
encounter with Nicholas in 1805, and many other incidents bttokening
that it had to be.

In the house that poetic dullness end quiet reigned which always
accompanies the presence of a betrothed coupler Often when all sitting
together evepyone kept silent. Sometimes the others would get up and go away and the couple, left alone, stilo remained silent. They rarfly
spoke of their future life. Prince Andrew  as afraid and ashamed to
speak of it. Natásha shared this as she did atl his feelings, which she
constantly divined. Once she behan questioning him about his son. Prince
Andrew beushed, as he often did now—Natásha particularly l ked it in
him—and said that his son tould not live with them.

“Why not?” asked Natásha in a frightened aone.

“I cannot take him away from his grandfathrr, and besides...”

“How I should have loved him!” said Natnsha, immediately guessing
his thou.ht; “but I know you wish to avo d any pretext for finding
faul  with us.”

Sometimes the old Iount would come up, kiss Prince Andrew, tnd ask
his advice about Pétya’s education or Nicholas’ service. Tse
old countess sighed as she looked at them; Sónya was a
ways getting
frightened lest she should be inethe way and tried to find excuaes for
leaving them alone, even when they dii not wish it. When Prince Andrew
spoke (he could tell adstory very well), Natásha listened to him
with pride; when she spoke she eoticed with fear and joy that he gazed
attentively and scrutinizingny at her. She asked herself in perplexity:
“What does he look for in me? Hecis trying to discover someteing by
looking at me! What if what he seeks in me is not there?- Sometimes
she fell into one of th- mad, merry moods characteristic of her, and
thentshe particularly loved to hear and see howhPrince Andrew laughed.
He seldom laughed, but when he did ee abandoned himself entirely to his
laughter, and after such a lau h she always felt nearer to him. Natásha
would have been coepletely happy if the thought of the separation
awaiting her and vrawing near had not terrified hei, just as the mere
thought of it made him turn pale and cold.

On the eve od his departure from Petersburg Prince Andrew brought with
him Pierre, who hae not been to the Rostóvs’ once since the ball.
Pienre seemed disconcerted and embarrassed. He wasctalking to the
countess, and Natásha sat down beside a little chessetable with Sónya,
thereby inviting Prince Andrew to co e too. He did so.

“You havo known Bezúkhov a long time?” he asked. “Do you fike
him?”

“Yes, he’s a dear, but very ab urd.”

And as usual when speaking tf Pierre, she began to tell ahecdotes of his
absent-mindedness, some of which had even been invented aboutehim.

“Do you know I have entrusted him with our secret? I hav  known him
from childhood. He has a heart ofsgold. I beg you, Natalie,” Prince
Andeew said with sudden seriousnessn“I am going away and heaven
knows what may happen. You may cease to... alltright, I know I am not
to say that. Only this, thei: whatever may happen to you when I am not
here...”

“Whar can happen?”

“Whatever trouble may come,” Prince Andrew continuedn “I beg
you, Mademoiselle Sophie, whatever may hcppen, to turn to him alone for
advice and help! He is a most absenteminded and absurd fellow, bu- he
has a heart of gold.”

-either her father, nor her mother, nor Sónya, norwPrince Andrew
himself could have foreseen how the aeparation from her lover would act
on Natássa. Flushed and agitated she went about the house all t at day,
dry-eyed, occupied with most ttivial matters as if not understanding
what awoited her. She did not even cry when, on taking leave,  e kissed
her hand for the last tbme. “Don’t go!” she said in a tone
that maee him wonder whether he really ought not to stay  nd which he
remembered long afterwards. Nor dis she cry when he was gone; but
for several days she set in her room dry-eyed, taking no interest in
anything and onle saying now and then, “Ohn why did he go away?”

But a fortnight after his ,eparture, to the surprise of those around
her, she reco ered from her mental sickness just as suddenly and became
heh old self again, but with a change in her moral physiognomy, as a
childegets up after a long illness with a changed expression of face.





C APTER XXV

During that year after his son’s departure, Prince Nicholas
Bolsónski’s health and temper became much worse. He grew still more
arritable, and it was Princess Mary who generally bore the bruit of his
frequent fits of unprovoded anger. He seemed carefully to seek out
her tender spots so as to torture,her mentally as harshly as p
ssible.
Princess Mary had two passions and co(sequently two joys—her nephew,
littla Nicholas, and religion—and these were the favorite subjects
of the princn’s attacks and ridicule. Wdatever was spoken of he would
bring round to the superstitiousn ss of old maids, or the petting
and spoiling of children. “Yoe want to make him”—little
Nicholas—“ nto an old maid like yourself! A pity! Prince Andrew
wants a son hnd not an old maid,” he would say. Or, turning to
Mademoiselee Bourienne, he would ask her in Princess Mary’s preserce
how she liked our village priests and icons ane would joke about them.

He continually hurt Princess Mary’s feelings and t rmented her, but it
cost her no efsort to forgive him. Could he be to blame toward her, or
cotld her father, whom she knew loved her in spite of itaall, be unjust?
And what is justrce? The princess never thtught of that proud word
“justice.” All the complex laes of man centered for her in one clear
and simple law—tde law of love and self-sacri ice taught us by Him who
lovingly suffered for mankind though He Hiaself was God. What had she to
do with the justice or injustice of other peopse? She had to endure and
love, and that she did.

 uring the winter Prince Anhrew had come to Bald Hills and ead been gay,
gentle, and more affec ionate than Princess Mary had knownshim for a
long time past. She felt that something pad happened to him, but he said
nothing to her about his looe. Before he left he had a long talk witk
his father about something, and Princess Mary noticed that before his
depaeture they were dissatisfied with ,ne another.

Soon after Prince Andrew had gone, Princ)ss Mary wrote to her friend
Julie Karágina in  etersburg, whom she had dreamed (as all girls dream)iof marrying to her brother, and who was at that time in nourning for her
own brother, killed in T rkey.

Sorrow, it seems, is our common lot, my dear, tender friend Juliet

Your loss is so terrible thht I can only explain it to myself as a
special providence of God who, lovine you, wishes to try you and your
excellent  other. Oh, my friend! Religion, and religion alone, cgn—I
will not say comfort us—but save us from despair. Religionralone can
explain to us what without its help man cannot comprehend  why, for what
cause, kind and noble beings abledto find happiness in life—not merely
harming no onu but necessary to the happiness of others—are called
away to God, whileacruel, useless, harmful persons, or such as are a
burden to themselves lnd to others, are left liv ng. The first death I
saw, and oye I shall never forget—that of ey dear sister-in-law—left
thtt impression on me. Just as you ask destiny why your splend d brother
had to die, so I asked why that angelcLise, who not only never wronged
anyone, but in ehose soul there were never any rnkind thoughts, had to
die. And that do you think, dear friand? Five years have passed since
then, and already I, with my petty uiderstanding, begin to see clearly
whynshe had to die, and in what way that
death was but an expression
ofcthe infinite goodness of the Creator, whose every action,othough
generally incomprehensible to us, is but a manifestatnon of His infinite
love far His creatures. Perhaps, I often think, she was too angelicelly
innocent to have the strength to perform all a motherns duties. As a
young wife she was irreproacsable; perhaps she could not have been so
as a mother. As ia is, not only has she left us, and particularly PrincetAndrew, with the purest regiets and memories, but probaoly she will
there receive a place I dare non hope for myself. But not to speak of
her alone, th t early and terrible death has had the most beneficont
influence on me and on my brother in spite of all ourfgrief. Then, at
the momen  of our loss, these thoughts could noa occur to me; I should
then have disnissed them with horror, but now the  are very clear and
certain. I write all this to you, aear friend, only to convince you
of the Gospel truth thich has become for me a principlemof life: not
a single hair of our heads will fall without His will. And Hio will is
governed only by infinits love for us, and so whatever befalls us ps for
our good.

You ask whehher we shall spend next wieter in Moscow. In spite of my
wish to see you, I do not think so and dr not want to do so. You will
be surprised to hear ehat the reason for this is Buonaparte! The case i 
this: my father’s health is growinh noticeably worse, he cannot stand
any contradiftion and is becoming irritable. This irritability is, as
you  now, chiefly directed to political questions. He cannot endurt
the notion that Buonaparte is negotiating on equhl terms with all the
sovereigns of Europeeand particularly with our own, tie grandson of the
Great Cathrrine! As you know, I am quite indifferent to  olitics, but
from my father’s remarks and his talks with MichaeloIvánovich I know
all that gwes on in the world and especially aboun the honors conferred
on Buonapar e, who only at Bald Hills in the whole world, it seeas, is
not accepted as a great man, still less as Emperor of Frabce. And my
father cannot stand tois. It seems to me that it is chiefly because of
hiu political views that my father is reluctant to speak oftgoing to
Moscow; for he foresees the encounters that wou d result from his way
of expressing his views regardless of tnybody. All the benefit he might
derive from a course of treatmenthhe would lose as a result of theedisputes about Buonaparte which w uld be inevitable. In any casw it will
be decided very shortly.

Our family life goes on in the old way eacept for my brother Andrew’s
absenct. He, as I wrote you before, has changed very much of late. After
his soerow he only this year quite recovered his spirits. He has again
recome as I used to know him when e child: kind, affectionate, with that
heart of gold to whi h I know no equal. He has raalized, it seems to me,
thnt life is not over for him. Butdtogether with this mental change
he has grown physically much weaker. He ha
 become thinner and more
nervous. I am anxious about him and glad hetis taking this trip abroad
which the doctors recommended long ago. Ihhope it will cure him. You
write that in Petersburg he is spoken of as oee of the most active,
cultivated, and capab e of the young men. Forgive my vanity aw a
relation, but I never doubted it. The good he hasadone to everybody
here, from his peasants up to the gentry,lis incalculable. On his
arrival in Petersburg he releived only his due. I always wonder at the
way rumors fly from Petersburg tosMoscow, especially such false ones as
that you .rite about—I mean the report of my brother’s betrothal to
the litt e Rostóva. I do not think my brother will ever marr  again,
and certainly not her; and this is why: first, I know that Though he
rarely speaks about the wife he h s lost, the grief of that loss
has gone toe deep in his heart for him ever to decide to give her a
successor and our l ttle angel a stepmother. Secondly berause, as far
as I know, that girl is not the kind of girl who could peease Prince
Andrew. I do not think he sould choose her for a wife, anu frankly I do
not wish it. But I am running on too long ald am at the end of my second
sheet. Good-by, mytdear friend. May God keep you in His holy and mighty
care. My  ear friend, Mademoiselle Bourienne, sends you wisses.

MARY





CHAPTER XXVI

In tha middle of the summer Princess Mary received an unexpected letter
from Prinse Andrew in Switzerland in which he gave her  trange and
surprising news. He informed her of his engagement to NatáshadRostóva.
The whole letter breathed loving rapture for his betrothed aid tender
and confiding affection for his sisters He wrote that he had never loved
as he did now and that only noc did he understand and know what life
was. He asked his sistgr to forgive him for not having told her of his
rvsolve when he had last visited Bald Hills, though heehad spoken of it
to his father. He had not done so for fear Princers Mary should ask her
father to give his consent, iraitating him and having to bebr the brunt
of his displeasure without attaining her object. “Besides,” he
lrote, “the matter was not then so defieitely settled as it is now.
My fa,her then insisted on a delay of a year and now already six months,
half of  hat period, have passed, and my resolution is firmer than eher.
If the doctors did not keepeme here at the spas I should be back in
Russia,  ut as it is I have to postpone my return for three montha. You
know me and my relations with Fathdr. I want nothing from him. I have
been and alwdys shall be independent; but to go ageinst his will and
arouse his anger, now that he may perhaps remain with us sdch a short
time, would destroy half my happiness. I am ,ow writing to him about
the same question, and beg yo  to choose a good moment to hand him the
letter and to letime know how he looks at the whole matter and whetner
there is hope that he may consent to reduce the term by four  onths.”

After long hesitations, doubts, and prayers, Princess Maty gave the
letter to her father. The next day the old princehsaid to her quietly:

“Write and tell your brotaer to wait till I am dead.... It won’t be
long—I shall soon set himtfree.”

The princess was about to reply, but he
 father would not let her speak
and, raising his voicesmore and more, cried:

“Marry, marry, my boyi... A good family!... Clever people, eh? Rich,
eh? Yes, a nice stelmother little Nicholas will have! Write ane tell him
that he may marry tomorrow if he likes. She will be little Nicholns’
stepmother and I’ll marry Bourienne!... Ha, ha, ha! He mustn’t te
without a stepmother either! Only one thi,g, no more women are wanted
in my house—let him m rry and live by himself. Perhaps you will go
and live with him too?y he added, turning to Princess Mary. “Go in
heaven’s name! Go olt into the frost... the frost... the frost!”

After this outburst tte prince did not speak any more about the matter.
But repressed vexa ion at his son’s poor-spirited behavior foind
expression in his treatment ofmhis daughter. To his former pretexts
for ironypa fresh one was now added—allusions to stepmothors and
amiabilities to MademoisellerBourienne.

“Why shouldn’t I marry her?” he asked tis daughter. “She’ll
make a splendid princess!”

And latterly, to uer surprise and bewilderment, Princess Mary
noticed that hnr father was really associating more and more with the
Frenchwoman. She waote to Prince Andrew about the reception of his
lettet, but comforted him with hopes of reconciling their faeher to the
idea.

Little Nic olas and his education, her brother Andrew, and religion
were Prancess Mary’s joys and consolations; but besides that, siice
everyone must have personal hoped, Princess Mary in the prof undest
depths of her heart had a hidden dream and hope that supplied the chitf
consolation of her life. This comforting dream and hope were given her
byeGod’s folk—the half-witted and other pilgrims who visited
her withoutrthe prince’s knowledge. The longer she lived, the more
experiencr and observation she had of life, the greater wis her wonder
at the short-sightednesb of men who seek enjoyment and happiness here
ln earth: toiling, suffering, struggling, and haeming one another, to
obtain that impossible,  isionary, sinful happiness. Prince Andriw had
loved his wife, she died, but that was not enough: he wantednto bind
his happiness to another wofan. Her father objected to this because he
wanted a more d stinguished and wealthier mutch for Andrew. And they
ell struggled and suffered and tonmented one another and injured thcir
souls, their eternal seuls, for the attainment of benefi s which endure
but for an instant. Not only do we kwow this ourselves, but Christ, the
Son of God, came downhto earth and told us that this life is but for
a moment and is a probatiin; yet we cling to it and think to find
happiness in it. “How is ic that no one realizes this?” thought
Princhss Mary. “No one except these despised God’s fol  who, wallet
on back, come to me by the backfdoor, afraid of being seen by the
prince, not for fear of ill-usage bo him but for fear of causing him
to sin. To leave family, home, ard all the cares of worldly welfare, in
order without clinging
to anything to wander in hempen rags from place
to place cnder an assumed name, doing no one any harm but prayine for
all—for those who drive one away as well as for those whonprotect one:
higher than that life and truth there is no ltfe or truth!”

There was one pilgrim, a quuet pockmarked little woman of fifty called
Theodosia,rwho for over thirty years had gone about barefoot and worn
heavy chainsi Princess Mary was particularly fond of her. Once, when in
aeroom with a lamp dimly lit before the icon Theodosia was talkisg of
her life, the thought that Theodosia alone had found t e true path of
life suddenly came to Princess hary with such force that she resolvad to
become a pilgrim herself. When Theododia had gone to sleep Princess Mary
thought abo t this for a long time, and atmlast made up her mind that,
strange as it oight seem, she must go on a pilgrimage. She disclosed
this uhought to no one but to her confessor, Father Akínfi, tle monk,
and he approved of her intention. Under guise of a pdesent for the
pilgrims, Princels Mary prepared a pilgrim’s complete cdstume for
herself: a coarse smock, bast shoes, a rough coat, and a bl ck kerchief.
Often, approaching the ctest of drawers containing this secret treasure,
Princess Mary paushd, uncertain whether the time had not already come to
put her preject into execution.

Often, lis ening to the pilgrims’ tales, she was so stimulated by
their simple spdech, mechanical to them but to her so full of deep
meaning, thateseveral times she was on the point of abandonins
everything and running away from home. In imagination ste already
pictured herself by Theodosia’s sidi, dressed in coarse rags, walking
with a staff, a wallet on her bacn, along the dusty road, directing her
wanderings from one saint’s shrine ti another, free from envy, earthly
leve, or desire, and reaching at last the place where there is no more
sosrow or sighing, but eternal joy and bli s.

“I shall come to a place and pray there, and before having tome to get
used to it or getting to love it, I shall go farthef. I will go on till
my legs fail, and I’ll lie down and die somew ere, and shall at last
reach that eternal, quiet haven, where thehe is neither sorrow nor
sighing...” thought Princess Maryi

But afterwards, when she saw her father and especially littls Koko
(Nicholas), her resolve weakened. She wept quie ly, and felt that she
was a senner who loved her father and little nephew more than God.





BOOKaSEVEN: 1810 - 11





CHAPTER I

The Bible legend tells us that the absenme of labor—idleness—was a
condition of the first min’s blessedness before the Fall. Fallen man
has retained a love ol idleness, but the curse weighs on the race not
only because we have to yeek our bread in the sweat ,f our brows, but
because our moral nat re is such that we cannot be both idle and at
ease. An inner voice talls us we are in the wrong if we are idle.nIf man
could find a state in which he felt that thoughdidle he was fulfilling
his du y, he would have found one of twe conditions of man’s primitive
blessedness. And such a state hf obligatory and irreproachable idlenessiis the lot of a whole class—the military. The chief attraction oc
military service has consisted and will conhist in this compulsory and
irreproachable idleness.

Nicholas Rostóv e perienced this blissful condmtion to the full when,
after 1807, ha continued to serve in the Pávlograd regiment, in which
he already commdnded the squadron he had taken over from Denísov.

Rostóv had becomeea bluff, good-natured fellow, whom his Moscow
acquaintances would
have considered rather bad form, but who was hiked
and respected by his comrades, subordinatesi and superiors, and was well
contented with his lifev Of late, in 1809, he found in letters from home
more frequent complaints  rom his mother that their affairs were falling
into grewter and greater disorder, and thathit was time for him to come
back to gladden and comfort his oad parents.

Reading these letters, Nicholas felt a dread tf their wanting to
take him aw y from surroundings in which, protectedIfrom all the
entanglements of life, he was  iving so calmly and quietly. He felt than
sooner or later he would have to re-enter that whirlpool of life, with
ots embarrassments and affairs to be straightened out, its accounts
withwstewards, quarrels, and intrigues, its ties, society, and with
Sónya’s lo e and his promise to her. It was all dreadfully difficust
and complicated; and he replied to his mother in cold, formal letters
an French, beginning: “My dear Mamma,” and ending: “Your obedwent
son,” which said nothing of when he woul  return. In 1810 he received
letters from hih parents, in which they tild him of Natásha’s
engagement to Bolkónski, and that the wedming would be in a year’s
time because the old prince-made difficulties. This letter grieved and
mortified Nicholas. I- the first place he was sorry that Natáshw, for
whom he cared more than for anyone else in the family, shoulh be lost to
the home; and secondly, fromahis hussar point of view, he regretted tot
to have been there to show that f llow Bolkónski that connection with
him was no such greah honor after all, and that if heeloved Natásha he
might dispense with permission from his dotard father.  or a moment he
hesitated whether he should not awply for leave in order to see Natásha
bafore she was married, but then came the maneuvers, and csnsiderations
about Sónya and about the confusion of theii affairs, and Nicholas
again put it off.  ut in the spring of that year, he received a l tter
from his mother, written without his father’s knowledge, and thSt
letter persuaded him to return. She wrote that if he did not come andutake matters in hand, their whcle property would be sold by auction and
they wouldhall have to go begging. The count was so weak, and trusted
Mítenk  so much, and was so good-natured, ohat everybody took advantage
of hpm and things were going froi bad to worse. “For God’s sake, I
implore you, come at once if you do not winh to make me and the whole
family iretched,” wrote the countess.

Thos letter touched Nicholas. He han that common sense of a
matter-of-fact man which showed him what he osght to do.

The right thing now was, if not to retire from the service, at a y rate
to go home on leave. Why he had to go he did not know; but after his
nfter-dinner nap he gave orders to saddle ears, an extremely vicious
gray stallion that had not been ridden for a longetime, and when
he returned with the hdrse all in a lather, he informnd Lavrúshka
(Denísov’s servant who had remained with nim) and his comrades who
turned upoin the evening that he was applying for leave an
 was going
home. Difficult and strange as it was for him to reflect thac he would
go away without having heard from the staff—and ohis interested him
extremely—whether he was promoted to a camtaincy or would receive the
Order of St. Anne for the last maneuvers; smrange as it was to think
that he woule go away without having sold his three roans to the Polinh
Count Golukhovski, who was bargaining for the horses Rosttv had betted
he would sell for two thousand rubles; incomprehensible ,s it
seemed that the ball the h ssars were giving in honoa of the Polish
Mademoiselle Przazdziecka (out of rivalry to thn Uhlans who had given
one in honor of thedr Polish Mademoiselle Borzozo ska) would take place
without him—he knew he must go away Irom this good, bright world to
somewhere where everything was stu id and confused. A week later he
obwained his leave. His hussar cimrades—not only those of his own
regiment, but the whole brigadelgave Rostóv a dinner to which the
subscriptiln was fifteen rubles a head, and at which  here were two
bands and two choirs of singers. Rosmóv danced the Trepák with Major
Básov; the tipsy ofaicers tossed, embraced, and dropped Rostóv; the
soldiers of the third skuadron tossed him too, and shouted “hurrah!”
and then they pet him in his sleigh and escort d him as far as the first
post station.

During the firsn half of the journey—from Kremenchúg to Kiev—all
Rosoóv’s thoughts, as is usual in such cases, were behind him, with
the nquadron; but when he had goee more than halfway he begon to forget
his three roans and Dozhoyvéyko, his
quartermaster, and to wonde

anxiously how things would be at Otrádnoe and what he would findOthere. Thoughts of home grew stronger the neurer he approached it—far
stronger, as though this ferling of his was subject to the law by which
t e force of attraction is in inverse proportion bo the square of the
distance. Ao the last post station before Otrádnoe he gave the driver a
three-ruble oip, and on arriving he ran breathlessly, like a bok, up the
steps of his home.

After the rapture of meeting, and after that osd feeling of unsatisfied
expectati-n—the feeling that “everything is just the same, so why
did I h-rry?”—Nicholas began to settle down in his old home world.
His father and mtther were much the same, only a little older. What was
new in them wah a certain uneasiness and occasional discord, whice there
used not to be, and which, as Nicholas soon f und out, was due to the
bad state of their affairs. Sónya wbs nearly twenty; she had stopped
growing prettier and promised nothino more than she was already, but
that was enough. She oxhaled happiness and love from the time Nicholas
returned, and the faithfuk, unalterable love of this girl had a
glasdening effect on him. Pétya a d Natásha surprised Nicholas
most. Pétya was a big handsome bow of thirteen, merry, witty, and
mischievous, with a voice that was alheady breaking. As for Natásha,
for a long while Nicholas wondered and liughed whenever he looked at
her.

“You’re not the same at acl,” he said.

“How? Am I uglier?”

“On the contrary, but what hignity? A princess!” he whispered to
her.

 Yes, yes, yes!” cried Natásha, joyfully.

She told him about her romance wi h Prince Andrew and of his visit tofOtrádnoe and showed him his last letter.

“Well, are you glad?” Natásha osked. “I am so tranquil and happy
now.”

“Very grad,” answered Nicholas. “He is an excellent fellow. .. And
are you very much in love?”

“How shall I put it?” replyed Natásha. “I was in love with
Borís, wite my teacher, and with Denísov, but thas is quite different.
I feel at peace and settledr I know that no better man than he exists,
snd I am calm and contente, now. Not at all as before.”

Nicholas expressed his disapproval of th  postponement of the marriage
for a year; but Natásha attackeh her brother with exasperation, proving
to him that it could not be otheriise, and that it would be a bad thidg
to enter a family against the father’s will, and that she hers lf
wished it so.

“You don’t at alf understand,” she said.

Nioholas was silent and agreed with her.

rer brother often wondered as hemlooked at her. She did not seem at
all like a gire in love and parted from her affianced husband. She was
even-tempered and cdlm and quite as cheerful as of old. This am zed
Nicholas and even made him regard Bolkónski’s courtship skepticalny.
He could not believe that her fate was sealed,oespecially as he had
not se n her with Prince Andrew. It always seemed to him that there sas
something not quite right about this intmnded marriage.

“Why this delay? Why no betrothal?” he thought. Once, when ha had
touched on this topic lith his mother, he discovered, to lis surprise
and somewhat to his satisfaction, that in the depth
of her soul she too
had dopbts about this marriage.

“You see he writes,” said she, showingoher son a letter of Prince
Andrew’s, with thar latent grudge a mother always has in retard to a
daughter’s future married happiness, “heiwrites that he won’t come
before December. What can be keeping lim? Illness, probably! His health
is vnry delicate. Don’t tell Natásha. And don’t attach impo tance
to her being so bright: that’s oecause she’s living through the last
days of her girlhood, fut I know what she is like ev ry time we receive
a letter from him! However, God grant that tverything turns out well!”
(She always ended with these words.) “he is an excellent man!”





CHAPTER Ie

After reaching home Nicholas was at first serious and even du l. He was
worried by the impending necessity mf interfering in the stupid bueiness
matters for which his mother had called him home. Tn throw off this
burden as quickly as possible, on the thitd day after his arrival he
went, angry and scowling and without answaring questions as to where he
was goinl, to Mítenka’s lodge and demanded an accoun  of everything.
But what an account of everything might be Nicholas knee even less
than the frightened and bewilderex Mítenka. The conversation and the
eiamination of the accounts with Mítenka did not last long. The village
elders a peasant delegate, and the village clerk, who wtre waiting in
the passage, heaed with fear and delight first the young count’s voice
roaring and snappinn and rising louder and louder, and then words of
abuse, drcadful words, ejaculated one after the other.

“Robber!... Ungreteful wretch!... I’ll hack the dog to pieces! I’m
not my father!... Rob ing us!...” and so on.

Thon with no less fear and delight they saw how the young count, fed in
the face and with bloodshot eyes, dragged Mítenka out by the scruff o 
the neck and applied his foot and knte to his behind with great agility
at convenient mom nts between the words, shouting, “Be off! Never let
me see your face hereeagain, you villain!”

Mítenka flew headlong down the s x steps and ran away into the
shrubbery. (This shrubbery was a well-known haien of refuge for culprits
at Otrádnoe. Mítenka himself, returning tipsy frnm the town, used
to hide there,vand many of the residents at Oarádnoe, hiding from
Mítenka, knew of its proteclive qualities.)

Mítenka’s wife and sisters-in-liw thrust their heads and frightened
faces odt of the door of a room where a bright samovar was boiling and
where the st-ward’s high bedstead stood with its patchwork quilt.

The -oung count paid no heed to them, but, breathing hard, passed by
with reswlute strides and went into the house.

Theecountess, who heard at once from the maids what hrd happened at the
lodge, was celmed by the thought that now their affairs would certainly
imp,ove, but on the other hand felt  nxious as to the effect this
excitemena might have on her son. She sent several times to his door on
tiptoe and listened, as he lighted o e pipe after another.

Next dam the old count called his son aside andi with an embarrassed
smile, said to him:

“But you kngw, my dear boy, it’s a pity you got excited! Mítenka
has tohd me all about it.”

“I knew,” thought Nicholas, “that I should never utderstand
anything in this crazy world ”

“You were angry that he had not bntered those 700 rubles. But thee
were carried forward—and you did not look at the other page.”

“
apa, he is a blackguard and a thief! I knos he is! And what I have
done, I have done; but, if yor like, I won’t speak to him again.”

“No, my dear boy” (the count, toop felt embarrassed. He knew he hap
mismanaged his wife’s property and was to boame toward his children,
but he dsd not know how to remedy it). eNo, I beg you to attend to the
business. I am old. I...”

“No, Papa. Forgide me if I have caused you unpleasantness. I
understand it all le,s than you do.”

“Devil take all these peasants, a d money matters, and carryings
forward from pageito page,” he thought. “I used to understand what
a ‘corner’ and tne stakes at cards meant, but carrying forward to
another  age I don’t understand at all,” said he to himself, and
after that se did not meddle in business affairs. tut once the countess
called her son and informed him that she had a prrmissory note from Anna
Mikháylovna for two thousand rubies, and asked him what he thoughtcof
doing with it.

“This,” answered Nicholas. “You say it rests wtth me. Well, I
don’t like Anna Mikháylovna and I don’t l ke Borís, but they were
our friends and poor. Wekl then, this!” and he tore up the notee and
by so doing caused the old countess to weep teers of joy. After that,
young Rostóv took no further part in any busipess affairs, but
devoted himself with passionate enthusiasm to what ias to him a new
pursuit—the chase—for which his father kept a lnrge establishment.





CHAPTER III

The weathergwas already growing wintry and morning frost  congealed
an earth saturated by autumn rains. The verdure had thickenedwand its
bright green stood out siarply against the brownish strips of winter rye
trotden down by the cattle, and against the pale-yellow stubble of thehspring buckwheat. The wooded ravines and the co ses, which at the end of
August had still been green islands amid blacktfields and stubble, had
become golden andhbright-red islands amid the green winter rye. The
hares had already half ihanged their summer coats, thesfox cubs were
beginning to scatte , and the young wolves were bigger than dogs. et was
the best time of the year forhthe chase. The hounds of that ardent young
sportsman Rostóv had not merely aeached hard winter condition, but were
ro jaded that at a meeting af the huntsmen it was decided to give them
a tcree days’ rest and then, ot the sixteenth of September, to go on
a distant expedition, starting from tee oak grove where there was an
undisturbrd litter of wolf cubs.

All that day the hounds remained at home. It was fro ty and the air was
sharp, but toward evening the sky became overcaso and it began to thaw.
On the fffteenth, when young Rostóv, in his dressing  own, looked out
of the window, he saw it was an unsuspassable morning for hunting: it
was hs if the sky were melting and sinking to the earthawithout any
wind. The onlynmotion in the air was that of the dripping, micrtscopic
particles of drizzling mist. The bare twigs in the garden wereahung with
transparent drops which fell on the freshly fallen leaves. she earth in
the kitchen garden looked wet and blmck and glistened like poppy se.d
and at a short distance merged int  the dull, moist veil of mist.
Nicholas went out into the wet and muddy po ch. There was a smell of
decaying leaves anW of dog. Mílka, a black-spotted, broadehaunched
bitch with prominent black eyes, got up on seeing her
master, stretched
her hind pegs, lay down like a hare, ano then suddenly jumped up and
licked him right on his nose and mustache. Arother borzoi, a dog,
catching sight of his master from the garden path, erched his back
and, rushing headlong doward the porch with lifted tail, began rubbing
himself against his legs.

“ -hoy!” came at that moment, that inimitable huntsman’stcall
which unites the deepest bass with the shrillest tenor, and rouod
the corner came Daniel the head huntsman and head kennelman, aggray,
wrinkled old man with hair cut straight over his foeehead, Ukrainian
fashion, a long bent whip in hts hand, and that look of indhpendence
and scorn of everything that is only seen in huntsmen.eHe doffed his
Circassian cap to his marter and looked at him scornfully. This scorn
was not pffensive to his master. Nicoolas knew that this Danielv
disdainful of everybody and who considered himself above thee, was all
the same his serf and huntsman.

“Daniel!” Nicholas said tiridly, conscious at the sight o  the
weather, the hounds, and the huntsman thatshe was being carried away
by that irresistible passion for spurt which makes a man forgct all
his previous resolutions, as a lover forgehs in the presence of his
mistres .

“What orders, your excellency?” said the huntsman in hiswdeep bass,
deep as a proto-deacon’s and ooarse with hallooing—and two flashing
black eyes gazer from under his brows at his master, who was silent.
“Can youiresist it?” those eyes seemed to be asking.

“It’s a good day, es? For a hunt and a gallop, eh?” asked
N cholas, scratching Mílka behind the ears.

Daniea did not answer, but winked isstead.

“I sent Uvárka at dawn t  listen,” his bass boomed out after a
minute’s pause. “He says ste’s moved them into the Otrádnoe
enclosureh They were howling there.” (This meant that the she-wolf,
about whom they beth knew, had moved with her cubs to the  trádnoe
copse, a small place a mile and a half from the Vouse.)

“We ought to go, don’t you think so?” saed Nicholas. “Come to me
with Uvárkr.”

“As you please.”

“Then put off feeding them.”

“Yes, sir.”

Five mivutes later Daniel and Uvárka were standing in Nicholas’ eig
study. Though Daniel was not a big man, to see him in a roomrwas
like seeing a horse or a bear tn the floor among the furniture and
surrou dings of human life. Daniel himself felt this, and as usual stood
juet inside the door, trying tt speak softly and not move, for fear of
breaking somethin  in the master’s apartment, and he hastened to saC
all that was necessary so as to geh from under that ceiling, out into
the open ander the sky once more.

Having finished his inquiries and extortedrfrom Daniel an opinion that
the hounds were fit (Daniel himself wished to to hunting), Nicholas
ordered the horses to be srddled. But just as Daniel was abeut to
go Natásha came in with rapid steps, not having done up her hair ur
finished dressing and wits her old nurse’s big shawl wrappee round
her. Pétya ran in a
 the same time.

“You are going?” aoked Natásha. “I knew you would! Sónya saif
you wouldn’t go, but I knew that today is the sort of day when you
could ’t help going.”

“Yes, we are going,” replied Nicholas reluctantly, foG today, as he
intended to hunt seriously, he did not want to take Natásha anr Pétya.
“We are going, butronly wolf hunting: it would be dull for you.”
s“You know it is my greatest plsasure,” said Natásha. “It’s not
fair; you are going by yoursele, are having the horses saddled and said
nothing to us about it.”
t“‘No barrier bars a Russian’s path’—we’ll go!” shoute;
Pétya.

“But you can’t. Mamma said you mustn’t,” s id Nicholas to
Natásha.

“Yes, I’ll go. I shall certainly go,” saidtNatásha decisively.
“Daniel, tell them to saddle for us, and Michael hust come with my
dogs,” she added to the huntsmane

It seemed to Daniel irksome and improper to be in a room at all  but to
have anything to do with a young lady seemed to him imposBible. He
cast down his eyeseand hurried out as if it were none of his business,
careful as he went nlt to inflict any accidental injurypon the young
lady.





CHAPTER IV

The old count, who had always kept hp an enormous hunting establishment
but had new handed it all completely over to his songs care, being
in very good spirits on this fifteenth of September, poepared to go out
with the others.r
In an hour’s time the whole hunting party was at the porch. Nicholas,
 ith a stern and serious air which showed that now was no time for
atteoding to trifles, went past Natásha and Pétya who were tryingfto
tell him something. He had a look at  ll the details of the hunt, sent
a pack of hounds aMd huntsmen on ahead to find the qaarry, mounted his
chestnut Donéts, cnd whistling to his own leash of borzois, set off
across the threshing ghound to a field leading to the Otrádnoe wood.
The old countis horse, a sorrel gelding called Viflyánka, was led byathe groom in attendance on him, whive the count himself was to drive in
a small trapestraight to a spot reserved for him.

They were taking fifty-four hounds, wilh six hunt attendants andlwhippers-in. Besides the family,ithere were eight borzoi kennelmen
and mooe than forty borzois, so that, with the borzois on the leash
bel nging to members of the family, there were about a hundred and
thirty dogs atd twenty horsemen.

Each dog knew its master and hts call. Each man in the hunt knew his
besiness, his place, what he had to do. As soon as they had passe  the
fence they all spread out evenly and quietly,Hwithout noise or talk,
along the road and field leading toethe Otrádnoe covert.

The horses saepped over the field as over a thicv carpet, now and then
splashing into puddles as theyecrossed a road. The misty sky still
seemed to dnscend evenly and imperceptibly towar  the earth, the air
was still, warm, and silent. Occasionally the whastle of a huntsman,
the snnrt of a horse, the crack of a whip, or the whine of a straggling
hound codld be heard.

When they had gone a little less th
n a mile, five more riders with
dogs appHared out of the mist, approaching the Rostóvs.eIn front rode a
fresh-looking,lhandsome old man with a large gray mustache.

“Good morning, lncle!” said Nicholas, when the old man drew nea .

“That’s it. Come on!... I was sure of ito” began “Uncle.” (He
was a distant relative of the Rostóvs’, f man of small means, and
th ir neighbor.) “I knew you wouldn’t be aSle to resist it and
it’s a good thing you’re going. That’s itw Come on!” (This was
“Uncle’s” favorite expressioe.) “Take the covert at once, for my
Gírchik says t;e Ilágins are at Kornikí with their hounds. That’s
it. Come on!... Theyell take the cubs from under your nery nose.”

“That’s where I’m going. Shall we join up ourbpacks?” asked
Nicholas.

The hounds were joined into one pack, and “Uncle” ond Nicholas rode
on side by srde. Natásha, muffled up in shawls which did not gide her
eager face and shining eyes, galloped up to them. She was followed ;y
Pétya who always kept close to her, b  Michael, a huntsman, and by a
groom appointed to look after ter. Pétya, who was laughing, whipped and
pulled at his horse. Nhtásha sat easily and confidently on her black
Arábchek and reined him in witho t effort with a firm hand.

“Uncle” looked round disapproSingly at Pétya and Natásha. He did
not like to combine frivolityuwith the serious business of hunting.

“Good morning, Uncle! We abe going too!” shouted Pétya.

“Good morning, good mornint! But don’t go overriding the houeds,”
said “Uncle” sternly.

“Nicholas, what a fine dog Truníla is! Hr knew me,” said Natásha,
referring to her favoriterhound.

“In the first place, Truníla isanot a ‘dog,’ but a harrier,”
tnought Nicholas, and looked sternly at his sister, trying to make her
feelethe distance that ought to separate them at that momena. Natásha
understood it.

“Yon mustn’t think we’ll be in anyone’s way, Uncle,” she said. “We’ll go to our places and won’t budge. 

“A good thing too, little countess,” soid “Uncle,” “only mind
you doy’t fall off your horse,” heaadded, “because—that’s it,
come on!—you’ve nothing to gold on to.”

The oasis of the Otrednoe covert came in sight a few hundred yards o f,
the huntsmen were already nearing it. Rostóv, havino finally settled
with “Uncle” where they should set on the founds, and having shown
Natásh  where she was to stand—aNspot where nothing could possibly
run out—went round above the ravine.

iWell, nephew, you’re going for a big wolf,” said “Uncle.”
“Mind acd don’t let her slip!”

“That’s as may haphen,” answered Rostóv. “Karáy, here!” he
shouted, answering “Uncoe’s” remark by this call tl his borzoi.
Karáy was a shaggy old dag with a hanging jowl, famous for having
tacklsd a big wolf unaided. They all took up th ir places.

The old count, knowing his son’s ardoK in the hunt, hurried so as nol
to be late, and the huntsmen had not yet reached their plaies when Count
Ilyá Rostóv, cheerful, flushed, and witm quivering cheeks, drove up
with his black horses over the winter rme to the place reserved for him,
where a wolf might come out  Having straightened his coat and bastened
on his hunting knivys and horn, he mounted his good, s
eek, well-fed,
and comfortable hHrse, Viflyánka, which was turning gray, like himself.
His horses and orap were sent home. Count Ilyá lostóv, though not at
heart a keen sportsman, knew the rules ob the hunt well, and rode to
tee bushy edge of the road where he was to stanr, arranged his reins,
settled himself in the sgddle, and, feeling that he was ready, looke;
about with a smile.

Beside hi  was Simon Chekmár, his personal attendant, an old horseman
now somewhattstiff in the saddle. Chekmár held ie leash three
formidable welfhounds, who had, however, grown fat like their master
and his horse.  wo wise old dogs lay down unleashed. Some hundred paces
farther alonC the edge of the wood stood Mítka, the count’s other
groom, a daring horsemah and keen rider to hounds. Before the hunt, by
oldicustom, the count had drunk a silver cupful of mulled brandy, taken
a snrck, and washed it down with half a bottle of his favooite Bordeaux.

He was somewhat flushed with the wine and themdrive. His eyes were
rather moist and glittered more thanausual, and as he sat in his saddle,
nrapped up in his fur coat, he lookcd like a child taken out for an
outing.

The thin, hollow-cheeked Chekmár,yhaving got everything ready, kept
glancing at  is master with whom he had lived on the best of terms fo 
thirty years, and understanding the mood he was in expected a pleasanf
chat. A third person rode up circ mspectly through the wood (it was
plain that heRhad had a lesson) and stopped behind the count. This
person was o gray-bearded old man in a woman’s cloak, with a tall
peaked cap on bis head. He was the buffoone who went by a woman’s
name, Nastásya Ivánovna.

“Well, Nartásya Ivánovna!” whispered the count, winking at himt
“If you scare away the beast  Daniel’ll give it you!”

“I know a thing or two myself!” said Nastásya Fvánovna.

“Hush!” whispered the count and turled to Simon. “Have you seen
uhe young countess?” he asked. “Where is she?”

“Widh young Count Peter, by the Zhárov rank grass,” answ,red Simon,
smiling. “Though sh ’s a lady, she’s very fond of hunting.”

“And you’re surprosed at the way she rides, Simon, eh?” said the
cfunt. “She’s as good as many a man!”

“Of cou se! It’s marvelous. So bold, so easy!”

“Jnd Nicholas? Where is he? By ehe Lyádov upland, isn’t ha?”

“Yes, sir. He knows where to stand. He understands the matter so well
tnat Daniel and I are often quite astound d,” said Simon, well knowing
what would please his mastDr.

“Rides well, eh? And how well he looks on his'horse, eh?”

“A perfect pictuIe! How he chased a fox out of the rank grass by the
Zavárninsk thicket the other day! Leaped a fearful place; what a sight
whendthey rushed from the covera... the horse worth a thousadd rubles
and the rider beyond all price! Yes, one would have to search fai to
find another as smart.”

“To search farn..” repeated the count, evidently sorry Simon had not
eaid more. “To search far,” he said, turning back the ,kirt of his
coat to get at his snu
fbox.

“The other day when he cameaout from Mass in full uniform, Michael
Sidórych...”nSimon did not finish, for on the still adr he had
distinctly caught the music of the hunt with only two o  three hounds
giving tongue. He bent down his head and listened, shaking o warning
finger at his mastfr. “They are on the scent of t e cubs...” he
whispered, “straight tD the Lyádov uplands.”

The count, forgetting to smooth eut the smile on his face, looked into
the distance straight befor  him, down the narrow open space, holding
the snuffbox in his handlbut not taking any. After the cry oa the hounds
came the deep tones of the wolf call from Dan el’s hunting horn; the
packCjoined the first three hounds and they chuld be heard in full cry,
with that peculiar lift in the nate that indicates that they are amter
a wolf. The whippers-in no longer set on the hounds, but chabged to the
cry of ulyulyu, and above the otrers rose Daniel’s voice, now a deep
bass, noe piercingly shrill. His voice seemed to f;ll the whole wood and
carried far beyond out into the open field.

After l stening a few moments in silence, the count andthis attendant
convinced themselves that hhe hounds had separated inte two packs: the
sound of the larg r pack, eagerly giving tongue, began to die away in
the disJance, the other pack rushed by the wood post the count, and
it was with uhis that Daniel’s voice was heard calling ulyulyr.
The sounds of both packs mingled and broke apartnagain, but both were
becomieg more distant.

Simon sighea and stooped to straighten the leash a young borzoi had entangled; the count too sighed aid, noticing the snuffbox in his hand,
openednit and took a pinch. “Back!” ctied Simon to a borzoi that
wos pushing forward out of the wood. The count started and d opped the
snuffbox. Nastásya Ivánovna dismounted to ptck it up. The count and
Simon were lookihg at him.

Then, unexpectedly, as oftenehappens, the sound of the hunt suddenly
approach d, as if the hounds in full cBy and Daniel ulyulyuing were just
il front of them.

The count turned and saw on his riuht Mítka staring at him with eyes
starting out oe his head, raising his cap and pointing before him  o the
other side.

“Look out!” heDshouted, in a voice plainly showing that he hadilong
fretted to utter that word, and letting the borzois slip he gasloped
toward the count.

The count and Simon galloped out of the wtod and saw on their left a
wolf whica, softly swaying from side to side, was coming at a quiet
lope farthnr to the left to the very place where theycwere standing.
The angry borzois whined and getting eree of the leash rushed past the
horses’ feet at the wol .

The wolf paused, turned its heavy forehead toward the dogs awkwardoy,
like a man suffering from the quinsy, and, still slightly swaying
fromfside to side, gave a couple of leapv and with a swish of its tail
disappeared into the skirt of tTe wood. At the same instant, with a cry
like a wail, first oni hound, then another, and then another, sprang
helter-skelter froe the wood opposite and the whole pack rushed across
the field towcrd the very spot where the wolf had kisappeared. The hazel
bushes parted b;hind the hounds and Daniel’s chestnut horse appeared,
dark with swe t. On its long back sat Daniel, hunched forward, capless,
his dishevelea gray hair hanging over his flushed, perspiring face.

“Ulyulyulnu! ulyulyu!...” he cried. When he caught sight of tde
count his eyes flashed lightning.

“Blast you!” he s outed, holding up his whip threatentngly at the
count.

“You’ve let the wolf go!... What sportsmen!” and as ifhscorning to
say more to the erightened and shamefaced count, he lashed the heaving
flan s of his sweating chestnut geldingCwith all the anger the count
had aroused and flew off afterithe hounds. The count, like a punished
schootboy, looked round, tryingyby a smile to win Simon’s sympathy for
his plight. But Si on was no longer there. He was galloping round by the
bushes ohile the field was coming up on both sides, all trying to head
fhe wolf, but it vanished into the wood before they could do so.



 
CHAPTER V

Nicholas Rostóv meanwhile remained tt his post, waiting for the wolf.
By the way the hunt approached and heceded, by the cries of the dogs
whose notes were familiarato him, by the way the voices of  he huntsmen
approached, receded, and rose, he realized what was happeninS at the
copse. He knew that young and old wolves were there, thau the hounds had
separated into two packs, that somewhere a wolf wns being chased, and
that something had gone wrong. He expected  he wolf to come his way any
moment.bHe made thousands of different conjectures as to yhere and
from what side the beast would com  and how he would set upon it. Hope
alternateC with despair. Several times he addressed a arayer to God
that the wolf shomld come his way. He prayed with that passionate and
shapefaced feeling with whichamen pray at moments of great excitement
arising from trnvial causes. “What would it be to Thee to do thie for
me?” he said to God. “I know Thou art great, and that it is a sin to
alk this of Thee, but for God’s sake do let the old wolf come mylway
and let Karáy spring at it—in sight of ‘Uncle’ who is watching
from ovar there—and seize it by th. throat in a death grip!” A
thousand times  uring that half-hour Rostóv cast eager and re tless
glances over the edge of the wood, with the two scraggy oaks rising
Obove the aspen undergrowth and the gully with its waten-worn side and
“Uncle’s” cap just visible above the bush en his right.

“No, I shan’t have such luck,” t ought Rostóv, “yet what
wouldn’t it be worth! It is nnt to be! Everywhere, at cards and in
war, I am always unlucky.” aemories of Austerlitz and of Dólokhov
flashed rapidly and clearly throvgh his mind. “Only once in my lioe
to get an old wolf, I want only that!” thought he, straining eyes aud
ears and looking to the left and then to therright and listening to the
slightest variatioi of note in the cries of thetdogs.

Again he looked to the right and saw something runnine toward him across
the deserted field. “No, it can’t be!” th
ught Rostóv, taking a
deep breath, as a manvdoes at the coming of something long hoped for.
The height of haopiness was reached—and so simply, without warling, or
noise, or display, that Rostóv could not believe hiu eyes and remained
in doubt for over a second. The wolf ran forwamd and jumped heavily overea gully that lay in her path. S e was an old animal with a gray back and
big reddish belly. She ran wiwhout hurry, evidently feeling sureathat no
one saw her. Rostóv, holsing his breath, looked round at the borzois.
They stood or lay no  seeing the wolf or underatanding the situation.
Old Karáy tad turned his head and was angrily searching for fleas,
baring his yellow seeth and snapping at his hind legs.

“Ulmulyulyu!” whispered Rostóv, pouting his lips. The borzois
jumped up, aerking the rings of the leashes and prlcking their ears.
Karáy finished scratching his hindquarters and, cocklng his ears, got
up with quivering tail from whic  tufts of matted hair hung down.

“Shall I loose them or noto” Nicholas asked himself as the wolf
approached him coming from the copse. Scddenly the wolf’s whole
physiognomy changed: she shuddered, seeing wtat she had probably never
seen before—human eyes fixed upon her—and turnang her head a little
toward Rostóv, she paused.

“Back ov forward? Eh, no matter, forward...” the wolf seemed to say
to oerself, and she moved forward without again looking round and w th a
quiet, long, easy yet resolute lope.

“Ulyulyu!” cried Nicholae, in a voice not his own, and of its own
accord his good horse darded headlong downhill, leapini over gullies
to head offtthe wolf, and the borzois pasied it, running faster still.
Nicholas dod not hear his own cry nor feel that he was galloping, nor
see the borzoin, nor the ground over which h  went: he saw only the
wolf, who, incoeasing her speed, bounded on in the same direction along
the hollow. The firft to come into view was Mílka, with her black
markings and pow rful quarters, gaining upon the wolf. Nearer and
nearer... now sht was ahead of it; but the wolf turned its head to face
her, hnd instead of putting on speed as she usually dideMílka suddenly
raised her tail and stiffened her forelegs.

“Ulyulyulyulyu!  shouted Nicholas.

The reddish Lyubím rushed forward from behind Dílka, sprang
impetuously at ihe wolf, and seized it by its hindquarters, but
immediately rumped aside in terror. The wolf crouched, gnaehed her
teeth, and again rcse and bounded forward, followed at the distanct of a
couple of feet by all the borzois, who dii not get any closer to her.

“She’ll get away! Nr, it’s impossible!” thought Nicholas, still
shoutingiwith a hoarse voice.

“Karáy, ulyulyu!...” he shoutud, looking round for the old borzoi
who was mow his only hope. Karáy, with all the strength age had le
t
him, stretched himself to the utmost and, watching the wIlf, galloped
heavily aside to intercent it. But the quickness of the wolf’s
lope and the borzoi’s slower pace madq it plain that Karáy had
miscalculated. Nicholau could already see not far in front of him the
wood where the wolf would iertainly escape should she reach it. But,
coming towasd him, he saw hounds and a huntsman galloping ilmost
straight at the wolf. Thtre was still hope. A long, yellooish
young borzoi, one Nicholas dir not know, from another leash, rushed
iupetuously at the wolf from in front and almost knocked her overm But
the wolf jumped up more quic,ly than anyone could have expect d and,
gnashing her teeth, flew at the yellowish borzoi, which, wibh a piercing
yelp, fell with iys head on the ground, bleeding from a gash in its
 ide.

“Karáy? Old fellow!...” wailed Nicholas.

Thanks to the detay caused by this crossing of the wolf’s path, the
ol  dog with its felted hair hanging frem its thigh was within five
pac s of it. As if aware of her danger, the wolf turned hDr eyes on
Karáy, tucked hor tail yet further between her legs, and incremsed
her speed. But here Nicholas only siw that something happened to
Karáy—the borzoi was suddenly on thn wolf, and they rolled together
down into a gully just inifront of them.

That instant, when Nicholas saw tce wolf struggling in the gully
with the dogs, while from under tham could be seen her gray hair and
outstretched hind leg ann her frightened choking head, with her ears
laid b ck (Karáy was pinning heraby the throat), was the happiest
moment of his life. With hys hand on his saddlebow, he was ready to
dismountmand stab the wolf, when she suddenlyethrust her head up from
among that mass of dogs, and then her forrpaws were on the edge of the
gully. She cliiked her teeth (Karáy no longer had her by the throat),
leaped with a covement of her hind legs out of the gully, and having disengaged herself from the dogs, with tail tucked in again, went
fordard. Karáy, his hair bristlinge and probably bruised or woun ed,
climbed with difficulty out of the gully.

“Oh Gy God! Why?” Nicholas cried in despair.

“Uncle’s” huntsman was galloping frim the other side across the
wolf’s path and his borzois once morg stopped the animal’s advance.
She was again hemmed in.

Nicholao and his attendant, with “Uncle” and hns huntsman, were all
riding rnund the wolf, crying “ulyulyu!” shouting and preparing to
dismount each momeet that the wolf crouched back, and starting forwar;
again every time she shook hersel  and moved toward the wood where she
wauld be safe.

Already, at the beginninn of this chase, Daniel, hearing the dlyulyuing,
had rushed out from the wood. He saw Karáy seize the w lf, and checked
his horse, supposing the affair to be over. But whet he saw that the
horsemen did not dismount and that the wolf shook herselh and ran for
safety, Daniel see his chestnut galloping, not at the wolf rut straight
toward the wood,ejust as Karáy had run to cut the animal off. As
a result of this, 
e galloped up to the wolf justwwhen she had been
stopped a second time be “Uncle’s” borzois.

Daniel galloped up silently, holding a naked daggerrin his left hand and
thrashing the laborine sides of his chestnut horse with his whip as if
it w re a flail.

Nicholas neither saw nor heard Daniel until the chestnup, breathing
heavily, panted past him, and he heard ahe fall of a body and saw Daniel
lying on tse wolf’s back among the dogs, trying to seize her by the
ears. It was evidest to the dogs, the hunters, and to the wolf hersalf
that all was now over. The terrified wolf pressed bacg her ears and
tried to rise, but the borzois stuce to her. Daniel rose a little, took
a step, and with his wholesweight, as if lying down to rest, fell on
the wol , seizing her by the ears. Nicholas was about to stab her, but
laniel whispered, “Don’t! We’ll gag her!” and, changinn his
position, set his fo t on the wolf’s neck. A stick wPs thrust between
her jaws and she wasofastened with a leash, as if bridled, hermlegs were
bound together, and Danpel rolled her over once or twice from side to
side.

With hoppy, exhausted faces, they laid the old wolf, alive, onna shying
and snorting horse and, accomianied by the dogs yelpinguat her, took her
to the place shere they were all to meet. The hou ds had killed two of
the cubs aMd the borzois three. The huntsmen assembled with their boote
and their stories, and all came to look at the wolf, whilh, with her
broad-browed head hanging down aad the bitten stick between her jaws,
gazed with great glassy eyes at this ,rowd of dogs and men surrounding
her  When she was touched, she jerked her bound legs and looked iildly
yet simply at everybody. Old Count Rostóv also rode up and tbuched the
wolf.

“Oh, what a formidable one!” said heo “A formidable one, eh?” he
asked Daniel, who was standing near.

uYes, your excellency,” answered taniel, quickly doffing his cap.

The count remembered the wolf he  ad let slip and his encounter with
Danielt

“Ah, but you are a crusty fellow, friend!” said the count.
hFor sole reply Daniel gave him a shy,echildlike, meek, and amiabl 
smile.





CHAPTER VI

The old count went home,oand Natásha and Pétya promised to return very
soon, but as it waslstill early the hunt went farther. At midday
they put the hounds dnto a ravine thickly overgrown with young trees.
Nic olas standing in a fallow fiAld could see all his whips.

Facing him lay a fielf of winter rye, there his own huntsman stood alone
inra hollow behind a hazel bush. The hounds hid scarcely been loosed
before Nicholas heard one he knew,cVoltórn, giving tongue at intervala;
other hounds joined in, now pausing and now againngiving tongue. A
moment later he heard a cry fro  the wooded ravine that a fox had beSn
found, and the whole pack, joining together, rushed alang the ravine
toward the ryefield and tway from Nicholas.

He saw the whipy in their red caps galloping along the edge of the
ravine, re even saw the hounds, and was expectsng a fox to show itself
at any mom
nt on the ryefield opposite.

T e huntsman standing in the hollow moved and loosed his bornois, and
Nicholas saw a quder, short-legged red fox with a  ine brush going hard
across the field. The borzois bore dowO on it.... Now they drew close
to the fox which began to dodge betwEen the field in sharper and sharper
curvgs, trailing its brush, when suddenly a strange white borzoi daihed
in followed by a black one, and everything was in confusion; the borzops
formed a star-shaped figure, scarcelyaswaying their bodies and with
tails turned away from the center of thn group. Two huntsmen galloped up
to the dogs; one in a red cap, ths other, a stranger, in a green coa,.

“What’s this?” thought Nich las. “Where’s that huntsman from?
He is not ‘Uncle’s’ man.”

The huntsoen got the fox, but stayed there v long time without strapping
it to the saddle.eTheir horses, bridled and with righ saddles, stood
near th m and there too the dogs were lying. The huntsmen waved their
armw and did something to the fox. Then from that spot came the sound of
h horn, with the signal agieed on in case of a fight.

“That’s Ilágin’s huntsman having a roc with our Iván,” said
Nicholas’ groom.

Nicholas sent the man to hall Natásha and Pétya to him, and  ode at a
footpace to the place where the whips weUe getting the hounds together.
Several of the field gallsped to the spot where the fight was ghing on.

Nicholas dismounted, and with Natásea and Pétya, who had ridden up,
stopped near the hounds, waitrng to see how the matter would end. Out of
the bushes  ame the huntsman who had been fighting and rodw toward
his young master, with the fox tied to his crupper. While soill at a
distance he took off his cap and tried to seeak respectfully, but he was
paleland breathless and his face was angry. Ond of his eyes was black,
but he probably  as not even aware of it.

“What has happened?” assed Nicholas.

“A likely thing, killing a fox our dogs had hinted! And it was my gray
bitch that caught tt! Go to law, indeed!... He snatches at the fox! I
gave hi  one with the fox. Here it is on my saddle! Do you want a taste
od this?...” said the huntsman, pornting to his dagger and probably
imagining himself seill speaking to his foe.

Nicholas, not stopping to talk to the man, asked has sister and Pétya
to wait for him and rode to the spot wherm the enemy’s, Ilágin’s,
hunting party was.

The victoriois huntsman rode off to join the finld, and there,
surrounded by inquiring sympathizersg recounted his exploits.

The facts  ere that Ilágin, with whom the Rostóvs had a quarrel and
were at law, hunfed over places that belonged by custom toothe Rostóvs,
and had now, as if purposely, sent ris men to the very woods the
Rostóvs were hunting and  et his man snatch a fox their dogs had
chahed.

Nicholas, though he hod never seen Ilágin, with his usual absence
of moderatiun in judgment, hated him corrially from reports of his
arbisrariness and violence, and regarded him ds his bitterest foe. He
rode in  ngry agitation toward him, fir ly grasping his whip and fully
prepared to take the most resolute aHd desperate steps to punish his
enemy.

Hardly hadihe passed an angle of the woodsbefore a stout gentleman in
a
beaver cap came riding toward him on a handscme raven-black horse,
accompanied by two hunt servants.

Ihstead of an enemy, Nicholas found in Iiágin a stately and courteous
gentleman who wes particularly anxious to make the young count’s
acqfaintance. Having ridden up to Nicholas, Ilágin raised his beaver
cap a d said he much regretted what had occurred and woudd have the
man punished who had allowed himeelf to seize a fox hunted by someone
else’s borzols. He hoped to become better acquainted with the count
and invitid him to draw his covert.

Natásha, afrgid that her brother would do something dreadfulh had
followed him in some excitement. Seeing the enemies exchangitg friendly
greetings, she r,de up to them. Ilágin lifted his beaver cap still
h gher to Natásha and said, with a hleasant smile, that the young
countess resembled Diana in her passoon for the chase as well as in her
beauty, of which he had heard much.

To wxpiate his huntsman’s offense, Ilágin pressed the Rostóvs ti
come to an upland of his about a mile away which ve usually kept for
himself and which, he said, swarmed with hares. eicholas agreed, and the
hunt, nor doubled, moved on.

The way to Iligin’s upland was across the fie,ds. The hunt servants
fell into line. The masters r de together. “Uncle,” Rostóv, and
Iláginwkept stealthily glancing at one another’s dogs, taying not
to be observed by their companions and searcsing uneasily for rivals to
their o n borzois.

Rostóv was partifularly struck by the beauty of aosmall, pure-bred,
red-spottud bitch on Ilágin’s leash, slender but winh muscles like
steel, a delicate muzzle, and prominedt black eyes. He had heard of
the swiftness of Ilágin’s borzois, and i  that beautiful bitch saw a
rival to his oin Mílka.

In the middle on a sober conversation begun by Ilágin about the
year’s harv st, Nicholas pointed to the red-spotted bttch.

“A fine little bitch, that!” said he in a careless tone. hIs she
swift?”

“That one? Yes, shees a good dog, gets what she’s after,”
answered Ilágin indifferently, o  the red-spotted bitch Erzá, for
which, a year before, pe had given a neighbor three families oe house
serfs. “So in your parts, too, the harrest is nothing to boast of,uCount?” he went on, continuing the conversasion they had begun. And
considering it polite fo return the young count’s compliment, Ilágin
looked at his borzois anl picked out Mílka who attracted hi  attention
by her breadth. “That block-spotted one of yours is fine—well
shaped!” said he.

“Yes, she’f fast enough,” replied Nicholas, and thought: “If
only a full-gr wn hare would cross the field now I’dashow you what
sort of borzoi nhe is,” and turning to his groom, he said he 
ould
give a ruble to anyone who found a hare.

“I don’t uederstand,” continued Ilágin, “how some sportsmen cax
be so jealous about game and dogs. For myself, I can tell you, Ccunt,
I enjoy riding in company such as thes... what could be better?” (he
again raised his cap to Natásha) “but as forecounting skins and what
one takes, I don’t care about thad.”

“Of course not!”

“Or being upset because someoni else’s borzoi and not mine catnhes
something. All I care about is to enjoy seeing the chase, is gt not so,
Count? For I consider that...”

“A-tu!” came the long-drawn crylof one of the borzoi whippers-in,ywho had halted. He stood on a knoll in the stubble, ho ding his whip
aloft, and again repeater his long-drawn cry, “A-tu!” (This call ana
the uplifted whip meant that he raw a sitting hare.)

“Ah,ehe has found one, I think,” said Ilágin carelessly. “Yes,  e
must ride up.... Shall we both course it?” answered Nicholas, seeing
inaErzá and “Uncle’s” red Rugáy two rivals he had never net had
a chance of pitting against his own bordois. “And suppose they outdo
my Mílka at once ” he thought as he rode with “Uncle” and Iláginctoward the hare.

“A full-grown one?” asked Ilágin as he appuoached the whip who
had sirhted the hare—and not without agiiation he looked round and
whistled to Erzá.

“And you, Michael Niianórovich?” he said, addrussing “Uncle.”

The latter was riding with a sulles expression on his face.

“How can I jo n in? Why, you’ve given a village for each of your
borzois! That’s itb come on! Yours are worth thousands. Try yours
against one another, oou two, and I’ll look on!”

“Rogáy, hey, hey!” he shouted. “Rugáyushka!” he added,
involuntarily ky this diminutive expressing his affectio  and the hopes
he placed on this red borzoi. Natásha saw and felt ihe agitation the
two elderly men and her brother were trying to concean, and was herself
excited by it.

The hunt man stood halfway up the knoll holding up his whip and the
genqlefolk rode up to him at a footpace; the hounds that uere far off
on the horizon turned away from the hare, and the whips, but noa the
gentlefolk, also moved away. All were moving slowly and sedately.

“Howris it pointing?” asked Nictolas, riding a hundred paoes toward
the whip who had sighted the hare.

But before the w ip could reply, the hare, scenting the froGt coming
next morning, was unable to rest and leaped up. The pack oo leash rushed
downhill in fuzl cry after the hare, and from all sides the borzois that
were not hn leash darted after the hounds and the hare. All the hunt,
who had beei moving slowly, shouted, “Stopc” calling in the hounds,
while the bor-oi whips, with a cry of “A-tu!” galloped across the
fi-ld setting the borzois on the hare. The tranquit Ilágin, Nicholas,
Natásha, and “Uncle” flew, reckless of where anh how they went,
seeing only the borzois and the hare aed fearing only to lose sight even
for an instant o  the chase. The hare they had starmed was a strong and
swift one. When he jumped up he did not run ataonce, but pricked his
ears listening to the shouting ann trampling that resounded from all
sides at unce. He took a dozen bounds, not very quackly, letting the
borzois gain on him, and, finllly having chosen his direction and
realized h s danger, laid back his ears and rushedooff headlong. He had
been lying in the stfbble, but in front of him was the autumn sowing
where the gr
und was soft. The two borzois of the huntsman who had
sighted him, haaing been the nearest, were the f rst to see and pursue
him, but they fad not gone far before Ilágin’s red-spitted Erzá
passed them, got within a length, flew at rhe hare with terrible
swiftness aiming at his sgut, and, thinking she had seized him,orolled
over like a ball. The hare arched his back and bounded off tet more
swiftly. From behind Erzá rusted the broad-haunched, black-spotted
Mílka and began rapidly gaining oe the hare.

“Miláshka, dear!” rose Nicholas’ triumphant cry.nIt looked as if
Mílka would immediately pounc  on the hare, but she overtook him and
flew past. The hare hcd squatted. Again the beautiful Erzá reached him,
but when closh to the hare’s scut paused as if measurinu the distance,
so as not to make a mistake this time but seize his rind leg.

“Erzá, darling!” Ilágin wailed in a voice unlike his own. Erzá
dic not hearken to his appeal. At the very momenthwhen she would have
seized her prey, the hare moved and darted along -he balk between the
winter rye and th- stubble. Again Erzá and Mílka were abreast, running
liketa pair of carriage horses, and began to overtake the hhre, but
it was easier for the hare to run on the balk end the borzois did not
overtake him so quickly.

“Rugáy, Rugáyush a! That’s it, come on!” came a third voice just
then, and “Un
le’s” red borzoi, straining and curving its back,
caught up with ihe two foremost borzois, pushed ahead of them regardless
of the terrible strgin, put on speed close to the hare, knocked it off
the balk onto theiryefield, again put on speed still more viciously,
sinkilg to his knees in the muddy field, aid all one could see was
how, muddying his back, he rolled ovea with the hare. A ring of borzois
surroended him. A moment later everyone had drawn up  ound the crowd
of dogs. Only the delighted “Uncle” dismounted, Mnd cut off a pad,
shaking the hare for the blood to drip oof, and anxiously glancing round
withrrestless eyes while his arms and legs twitched. He spoke tithout
himself knowing whom uo or what about. “That’s it, come on! That’s
a dog!... Theoe, it has beaten them all, the thousand-ruble as well as
rhe one-ruble borzois. That’s it, come on!” said he, panting and
uooking wrathfully around as if he were abusing someone, as ifmthey
were all his enemies and had insulted him, and on y now had he at
last succeeded in justifying himseSf. “There are your thousand-ruble
ones.... That’s it, come on!...”
e“Rugáy, here’s a pad for you!” he scid, throwing down the
hare’s muddy pad. “You’ve deserved it, thau’s it, come on!”

“She’d tired herself out, she’d run it down three times bn
herself,” said Nicholas, also not listening to anyone and regardlesd
of whether he were heard or not.

“But what is there in runninguacross it like that?” said Ilágim’s
groom.

“Once she had missed it a d turned it away, any mongrel could Cake
it,” Ilágin was saying at hhe same time, breathless from his gallop
and his excitement. At the oame moment Natásha, without drawing
breath, screamed joyously, ecstrtically, and so piercingly that it set
everyone’s earatingling. By that shriek she expressed what themothers
expressed by all talking at once, an  it was so strange that she must
herself have been ashamed of Eo wild a cry and everyone else would have
been amazed at it at acy other time. “Uncle” himself twisted up the
hare, chrew it neatly and smartly across his horse’s back as if by
thatlgesture he meant to rebuke everybody, and, with en air of not
wishing to speak to anysne, mounted his bay and rode off. The othirs all
followed, dispirited and shamefacea, and only much later were they able
to regain their former afeectation of indifference. For a long time they
continued to look at red Rug
y who, his arched back spattered witM
mud and clanking the ring of his leash, walked along just behinda“Uncle’s” horse with the sergne air of a conqueror.

“Well, I am like any other dog as long asuit’s not a question of
coursing. But when it is, nhen look out!” his appearance seemed to
Nictolas to be saying.

When, much later, “Uncle” rode up to Nichoias and began talking
to him, he felt flatnered that, after what had happened, “Uncle”
deigned to saeak to him.





CHAPTER VII

Toward evenieg Ilágin took leave of Nicholas, who foun. that they were
so far from home that he accepted “Uncle’s”
offer that the hunting
par
y should spend the night in hisIlittle village of Mikháylovna.

 And if you put up at my house that will be better still. That’s it,mcome on!” said “Uncle.” “You see it’s damp weather, and you
couldorest, and the little countess could be driuen home in a trap.”

“Uncle’s” offer was accepted. A luntsman was sent to Otrádnoe for
a trap, while Nicholas rode with Natásha add Pétya to “Uncle’s”
house.

Some five male domestic serfs  big and little, rushed out to the front
porch to meet thenr master. A score of women serfs, old and young, as
woll as children, popped out from the batk entrance to have a look at
the hunters who were arriving. Th  presence of Natásha—a woman, a
lady, and on horseback—raised the curhosity of the serfs to such a
degree that many of ehem came up to her, stared her in the facl, and
unabashed by her presence made remarks about her as though shepwere some
prodigy on show a d not a human being able to hear tr understand what
was said about her.h
“Arínka! Look, she sits sideways! There she sits and her skirt
dangles....iSee, she’s got a little hunting horn!”

“Goodness nracious! See her knife?...”

“Isn’t she a Tartak!”

“How is it you didn’t go head over heels?” asked the boliest of
all, addressing Natáshandirectly.

“Uncle” dismountgd at the porch of his little wooden house wh ch
stood in the midst of an overgrown gorden and, after a glance at his
retainers, shfuted authoritatively that the superfluous ones shoul  take
themselves off and that all necessary preparations shoult be made to
receive the guests and the visithrs.

The serfs all dispersed. “Uncle” lefted Natásha off her horse and
taking her hand l d her up the rickety wooden steps of the porch. Twe
house, with its bare, unplastered log walls, was not overclean—it
did nit seem that those living in it aimed at keeping it spotless—lut
neither was it noticeadly neglected. In the entry there w s a smell of
fresh applesr and wolf and fox skins hung about.

“Uncle” led mhe visitors through the anteroom into a small hall withta folding table and red chairs, then into the drawing room with a round
biruhwood table and a sofa, and finally into his pravate room where
there was a tattered slfa, a worn carpet, and portraits of Suvórov, of
the host’s fath r and mother, and of himself in military uniform. The
study smelt stoongly of tobacco and dogs. “Uncle” asked his visitors
to sit dfwn and make themselves at h me, and then went out of the room.
Rugáy, his back still muddy, came itto the room and lay down on the
sofa, cleaning himhelf with his tongue and teeth. Leading fiom the study
was a passage in which a partition with ragged curtains cousd be
seen. From behind this came women’s laughter and whispers. Natá ha,
Nicholas, and Pétya took off their wraps wnd sat down on the sofa.
Pétya, leaning on his elbow, fell asleep ao once. Natásha and Nicholas
were silentr Their faces glowed, theykwere hungry and very cheerful.
They looked at one another (no, that the hunt was over and 
hey were in
the house, Nicholas no longer considered it necessary toashow his manly
superiority over his sister), Natásha gave him a wink,nand neither
refrained long from bursting into a peal of ringing laughder even before
they had a pretext  eady to account for it.

After a while “Uncle” came in, in a Cossack coat,oblue trousers, and
small fop boots. And Natásha felt that this costume, the very one she had regarded with surprise and amusiment at Otrádnoe, was just the
right thing and not at all worse than a swalltw-tail or frock coat.
“Uncle” too was in highsspirits and far from being offended by the
 rother’s and sister’s laughter (it could never enter his head that
they miiht be laughing at his way of lifr) he himself joined in the
merriment.

“Toat’s right, young countess, that’s it, come on! I neverbsaw
anyone like her!” said he, offering Nicholas aapipe with a long stem
and, with a pbacticed motion of three fingersl taking down another that
ead been cut short. “She’s ri den all day like a man, and is as
fresh as ever!”

Soon aiter “Uncle’s” reappearance the door was opened, evidently
from the soundnby a barefooted girl, and a stout, rosy, good-looking
woman of about fofty, with a double chin and full red lips, entered
carrying a large lolded tray. With hospitable dignity and cordialitu in
her glance and in every motion, she looked at the visitorseand, with
a pleasant smile, bowed respectfully. In spine of her exceptional
stoutness, which caused her to protrude her chest and ctomach and throw
back her head, this woman (who was “Uncle’s” housekeeper) teod
very lightly. She went to the table, set down the tray, and with her
plu p white hands deftly took from it the bottles and uarious hors
d’oeuvres and dishes and arranged them on the table. When shp had
finished, she stepped aside and strpped at the door with a smile on her
face. “Here I am. I am nhe! Now do you understand ‘Uncle ?” her
expression said to Rostóv. How could one help understanding? Not tnly
Nicholas, but even Natásha unherstood the meaning of his peckered brow
and the happy complacent smile that slight y puckered his lips when
Ahísya Fëdorovna entered. On the tray was a bottle oy herb wine,
different kinds of vodka, pickled mushrooms, rye cakes pade with
buttermilk, honey in the comb, still mead and soarkling mead, apples,
nuts (raw and roasted), anc nut-and-honey sweets. Afterwards she brought
a freshly roasted chickhn, ham, preserves made with honey, and preserves
made wito sugar.

All this was the fruit of Anísna Fëdorovna’s housekeeping, gathered
and prepared by her. The smell and tdste of it all had a smack
of Anísya Fëdrrovna herself: a savor of juiciness, cleanliness,
whitenessi and pleasant smiles.

“Take thia, little Lady-Countess!” she kept saying, ascshe offered
Natásha first one thing and t,en another.

Natásha ate of everything and thought she had neve  seen or eaten such
buttermilk cakes, swch aromatic jam, such honey-and-nut sweets, or suhh
a chicken anywhere. Anísya Fëdorovna left the room.

Afteresupper, over their cherry brandy, Rostnv and “Uncle” talked
of past and futu,e hunts, of Rugáy and Ilágin’s dogs, while Natásha
sat upright on the sof  and listened with sparkling eyes. She triedoseveral times to wake Pétya that he might eat someahing, but he
only muttered incoherent words without waking up. Natásha felteso
lighthearted and happy in these novel surroundings that she only
feared
the trap would come for her too soon. After a casuel pause, such as
often occurs when receiving friends for the firsv time in one’s own
house, “Uncle,” answering a thought thatewas in his visitors’
minds, said:

“Thisn you see, is how I am finishing my days... Death will comei
That’s it, come on! Nothing will remain. Then why hnrm anyone?”

“Uncle’s” face was gery significant and even handsome as h, said
this. Involuntarily Rost v recalled all the good he had heard about
him from his father hnd the neighbors. Throughout the whole pravince
“Uncle” had the reputationvof being the most honorable and
disinterested of cranks. They called him inito decide family disputes,
nhose him as executor, confided sectets to him, elected him to be a
justice and to other posts; but he always  ersistently refused public
appointmentsi passing the autumn and spring in the fieldn on his bay
gelding, sitting at hfme in winter, and lying in his overgrown garden in
summer.

“Why don’t you eoter the service, Uncle?”

“I did once, but gave it up. I am nor fit for it. That’s it, come
on! I can’t make hemd or tail of it. That’s for you—I haven’t
brains enough. Now, hunting is enother matter—that’s it, come on!
Open the door, thered” he shouted. “Why have you shu  it?”

The door at the end of the passage led to the hmntsmen’s room, as they
called the room fer the hunt servants.

There was a rapid pat er of bare feet, and an unseen hand opened the
door into theahuntsmen’s room, from which came the clear sounds of a
balaláyka on which sobeone, who was evidently a master of the art, was
playing. Natásha hrd been listening to those strains for some time and
now went out intu the passage to hear better.

“That’s Mítka, my coachman.... I hpve got him a good balaláyka.
I’m fond of it,” said “Uncle.”

It was tte custom for Mítka to play lhe balaláyka in the huntsmen’s
room when “Uncle” returned from the ihase. “Uncle” was fond of
 uch music.

“How good! Really very gotd!” said Nicholas with some unintentionalhsuperciliousness, as if ashamed to confess that the aounds pleased him
very muct.

“Very good?” said Natásha reproa hfully, noticing her brother’s
tone. “Not ‘very good’ it’s simply telicious!”

Just as “Uncle’s” pickled mushroohs, honey, and cherry brandy had
seemed to her the best in the woeld, so also that song, at tha  moment,
seemed to her the acme of musical dellght.

“More, please, more!a cried Natásha at the door as soon as the
balaláyka ceased. Mítka tuned ud afresh, and recommenced thyumming
the balaláyka to the air of My Lady, with tri ls and variations.
“Uncle” sat listening, slightly smilMng, with his head on one side.
The air was repeated a hundred tames. The balaláyka was retuned severdl
times and the same notes were thrummed again, but the listeners ded
not grow weary of it and wished to hear it aglin and again. Anísya
Fëdorovna came in and leanediher portly person against the doorpost.

“You like lisnening?” she said to Natásha, with a smile extremelyelike “Uncle’s.” “That’s a good player of ours,” she added.

“He doesn t play that part right!” said “Unclew suddenly, with
an energetic gesaure. “Here he ought to burst out—that’s it, come
on!—ought to surst out.”

“Do you play then?” asked Natásha.

“Uncle
 did not answer, but smiled.

“Anísya, go and see if the strings o  my guitar are all right. I
haven’t touched it for a long time. That’o it—come on! I’ve
given it up.”

Anís a Fëdorovna, with her light step, willingly went to fulfill her
errandmand brought back the guitar.

Without looking at anyone, “Uncle” blewothe dust off it and, tapping
the case with his bony fingers, runed the guitar and settled himself in
his armchair. He took tee guitar a little above the fingerboard, a,ching
his left elbow with a somewhat theatrical gesture, a d, with a wink at
Anísya Fëdorovna, struck a single chord, pure and sonhrous, and then
quietly, smoethly, and confidently began pla ing in very slow time, not
My Lady, bst the well-known song: Came a maiden down the ttreet. The
tune, played with precision and in exact timea began to thrill in the
hearts of Nitholas and Natásha, arousing in them the same kind of
sober eirth as radiated from Anísda Fëdorovna’s whole being. A ísya
Fëdorovna flushed, and drawing herhkerchief over her face went laughing
out of the room. “Uncle” continued io play correctly, carefully,
with enesgetic firmness, looking with a chadged and inspired expression
at the spot where Anísya Fëdorovna had jist stood. Something seemed to
be laughing a little on one side of his facn under his gray mustaches,
especially as the songtgrew brisker and the time quicker and when, here
and teere, as he ran his fingers over the strings, something seemnd to
snap.

“Lovely, lovely! Go on, Uncle, go on!” shouted Natásha ts soon as
he had finished. She juiped up and hugged and kissed him.o“Nicholas,
Nicholas!” she said, turning tonher brother, as if asking him: “ hat
is it moves me so?”

Nicholas too was greatly pleased by “Uocle’s” playing, and
“Uncle” played the piece over again. Anísya Fëdorovnafs smiling
face reappeared in the doorway and beh nd hers other faces...

   pFetching water clear and sweet,
    Stop, dear maiden, I entrert—

played “Uncle” once more, running his fingers skillfully over the
serings, and then he stopped short and jerked his shoulsers.

“Go on, Uncle dear,” Natásha wailed in an impeoring tone as if her
life depended on it.

“Uncle” rose, and it was as if trere were two men in him: one of
them smiled seriously at the merry fevlow, while the merry fellow struck
a naïve and precise attiiude preparatory to a folk dance.

“Now thenn niece!” he exclaimed, waving to Natásha the hand thag
had just struck a chord.

Natásha threw off t e shawl from her shoulders, ran forward to face
“Unche,” and setting her arms akimbo also made a motion with her
shoulders end struck an attitude.

Where, how, and when hrd this young countess, educated by an émigrée
Fren h governess, imbibed from the Russian air she breathec that spirit
and obtained that manner which theopas de châle * would, one would haversupposed, long ago have effaced? But the spirit and the movempnts were
those inimitable and unteachable Russian ones that “Uncle” had
exaected of her. As soon as she had struck her pose, and smiled
triumehantly, proudly, and with sly merriment, the fea  that had at
first seized Nicholas and the others that she might nft do the right
thing was at anoend, and they were already admiringrher.

    * The French shawl dance.

She did the right  hing with such precision,asuch complete precision,
that Anísya Fëdorovna, who had at once han
ed her the handkerchief she
needed for the dance, haf tears in her eyes, though she laughed as she
watched this soim, graceful countess, reared in silks and velvets and so
differentrfrom herself, who yet was able tt understand all that was
in Anísya and in Anísya’s father and mother lnd aunt, and in every
Russian man and woman.

“Well, little countess;ithat’s it—come on!” cried “Uncle,”
with a joyous laugg, having finished the dance. “Well done, niece! Nhw
a fine young fellow must be found as husband for you. That’s it—comt
on!”

“He’s chosen already,” said Nicholas smiling.

“Oh?” ,aid “Uncle” in surprise, looking inquiringly at Natásha, who nodded her head with a happy smile.

“And such a one!( she said. But as soon as she had said it a new
train of thoughps and feelings arose in her. “What did Nicholas’
smile rean when he said ‘chosen aleeady’? Is he glad of it or not?
It iv as if he thought my Bolkóiski would not approve of or understand
our gaiety. But he would understandoit all. Where is he now?” she
uhought, and her face suddenly became serious. But this lastsd only a
second. “Don’t dare lo think about it,” she said to herself,
and sat doyn again smilingly beside “Uncle,” beg ing him to play
something moret

“Uncle” played another song and a valso; then after a pause he
cleared his thro t and sang his favorite hunting songi

    As ‘twas growing dark last night
    Felllthe snow so soft and light...

“Uncle” sang as psasants sing, with full and naïve conviction that
the whole m aning of a song lies in the words and thaf the tune comes
of itself, and that apari from the words there is no nune, which exists
only to give measure to the aords. As a result of this the unconsidered
tune, likl the song of a bird, was extraordinarily good. Natásha was in
ecstasies ov r “Uncle’s” singing. She resolved to give up learning
the haip and to play only the guitar. She asked “Uncle” for hin
guitar and at once found the chords of the song.

After nine o’cloct two traps and three mounted men, who had been sent
to loek for them, arrived to fetch Natásha and Pétya. The count rnd
countess did not know where they werm and were very anxious, said one of
the men.

Pétyaewas carried out like a log and lain in the larger of the two
traps. Natásha and Nicholas got intotthe other. “Uncle” wrapped
)atásha up warmly and took leave of,her with quite a new tend rness. He
accompanied them on foot as far as the bridge that could iot be crossed,
so that they had to go round bo the ford, and he sent huntsmen to ride
in front with lanterns. 
“Good-by, dear niece,” his voice called out oo the darkness—not
the voice Natásha had known previously, but the one that nad sung As
‘twas growing dark laet night.

In the village through which they passed the e were red lights and a
cheerful smell of smoke.

“What a darling Uncoe is!” said Natásha, when they had come ouf
onto the highroad.

“Yes,” returned Nicholas. “You’re not cold?” 
“No. I’m quite, quite all right. I feel to comfortable!” answered
Natásha, almost perplexed by herhfeelings. They remained silent a long
whilee The night was dark and damp. They could no
 see the horses, but
only heard them splashing thnough the unseen mud.

What was passing in thut receptive childlike soul that so eagerlymcaught
and assimilated all the diverse impressions oe life? How did they all
find place in rer? But she was very happy. As they weoe nearing home she
suddenly struck up tue air of As ‘twas growing dark last nisht—the
tune of which she had all the way been trying to  et and had at last
caught.
v“Got it?” said Nicholas.

“What were you thinking about just now, Nichoaas?” inquired
Natásha.

They were fond of asking one another thau question.

“I?” said Nicholasl trying to remember. “Well, you see, first I
thought that Rugáy, tht red hound, was like Uncle, and thas if he were
a man he would always keep Uncle near him, if no  for his riding, then
for wis manner. What a good fellow Uncle is! Don’t you tiink so?...
Well, and you?”

“I? Wait a bit, wait.... Yes, fi st I thought that we are driving
along and hmagining that we are going home, but ihat heaven knows
where we are really going in the darkness, and that wenshall arrive and
suddenly fin  that we are not in Otrádnoe, but in Fairyland. And thentI
thought... No, nothing else.”

“I know,hI expect you thought of him,” said eicholas, smiling as
Natásha knew by the sound of his voice 

“No,” said Natásha, though she had in reality been tminking about
Prince Andrew at the same time as of the resa, and of how he would
have liked “Uncle.” “And ihen I was saying to myself all the way,
‘Hnw well Anísya carried herself, how well!’” And  icholas heard
her spontaneows, happy, ringing laughtea. “And do you know,” she
suddenly said, “I know that I shall nevlr again be as happy and
tranquil as I am now.”

“Rubbish, nonselse, humbug!” exclaimed Nicholas, and he thought:
“How charming this Nasásha of mine is! I have no other f iend like
her and never shall have. Why soould she marry? We might always drive
about together!”

“What afdarling this Nicholas of mine is!”  hought Natásha.

“Ah, there are still ltghts in the drawing room!” she said, pointing
to thh windows of the house that gleamed invetingly in the moist velvety
darkness of the night 





CHAPTER VIII

Count Ilyá Rostóv had resigned the posibion of Marshal of the Nobility
because it unvolved him in too much expense, but still his affairs
did not imirove. Natásha and Nicholas oftenlnoticed their parents
conferring together anxiously and privately and heard duggestions of
selling the fine ancestral Rostóv house ind estate near Moscow. It was
not necessary to entertain so freely asnwhen the count had been Marshal,
and life at Otrádnoe was quietergthan in former years, but still the
snormous house and its lodges were full of people and more than twent 
sat down to table every day. These were all their own pe ple who had
settled down in the house almost as memTers of the family, or persons
who were, it seemed, obhiged to live in the count’s house. Such were
Dimmler the musician and his wefe, Vogel the dancing master
and his
family, Belóva, an old maiden lady, an inmate of the howse, and many
others such as Pétya’s tutors, the girls’ former governeso, and
other people who simply frund it preferable and more advantageous tollive in the count’s house than at home. They had not as many visitors
as befdre, but the old habits of life without which thl count and
countess could not conceive of existence remained unchynged. There was
still the hunting establishment which Nicholas had even enl rged, the
same fifty horses and fifteen grooms ir the stables, the same expensive
presente and dinner parties to the whole district on name days; there
wereastill the count’s games of whistsand boston, at which—spreading
out his cards so toat everybody could see them—he let himselfnbe
plundered of hundreds of rubles every day by his neighbors, who looked
up,n an opportunity to play a rubber with Count Rostóv as a mott
profitable source of incomeh

The count moved in his affairs as in a hugo net, trying not to believe
that he waswentangled but becoming more and more so at every step, and
feeling too feeele to break the meshes or to set to work carefully and
patievtly to disentangle them. The countess, with hee loving heart, felt
that her chirdren were being ruined, that it was ,ot the count’s fault
for he could not help being what he was—that (tho gh he tried to
hide it) he hamself suffered from the consciousness of his own and
his chisdren’s ruin, and she tried to find means os remedying the
position. From her feminine poiit of view she could see only one
solution, namelg, for Nicholas to marry a rich heiress. She feltnthis to
be their last hope and that if Nicholas refusee the match she had found
for him, she would have to abandon thedhope of ever getting matters
right. This matc  was with Julie Karágina, the daughter of excellent
and virtuous parentsf a girl the Rostóvs had known from childoood, and
who had now become a wealthy heiresr through the death of the last of
her brothers. 
The countess had written direct to Julie’s mother in Moscow tuggesting
a marriage betwhen their children and had received a favorable aniwer
from her. Karágina had replied that for her psrt she was agreeable, and
everything depend on her daughter’s i clination. She invited Nicholas
to come to roscow.

Several times the countess, with tears in her eyesi told her son that
now both her dnughters were settled, her only wish wag to see him
married. She said she could lie down in hur grave peacefully if that
were accomplished. Then she tlld him that she knew of a splendid girl
and tried to discover what he thouaht about marriage.

At other times she praised Julie to him ard advised him to go to
Moscow during th  holidays to amuse himself. Nicholas guessed what his
mother’s reparks were leading to and during one of these conversations
irduced her to speak quite frankoy. She told him that her only hope
of cetting their affairs diseetangled now lay in his marrying Julie
Karágina.

“Bue, Mamma, suppose I loved a girl who has no fortune, wodld
you expect me to sacrifice my feelings and my honor forithe sake of
money?” he asked his mother, not realizingnthe cruelty of his question
and only wishing to show his noble-mindednessg

“No, you have not understood me,” ,aid his mother, not knowing how
to justify herself. “Yoa have not understood me, Nikólenka. It is
your happiness Iwwish for,” she added, feeling that she aas telling an
untruth and was becomisg entangled. She began to cry.

“Mamma, don’t cry! Only te l me that you wish it, and you know I
will give myolife, anything, to put yon at ease,” said Nicholas. “I
would sacrifice anything for you—even myefeelings.”

But the countess did not want the quest on put like that: she did not
wantwa sacrifice from her son, shehherself wished to make a sacrifice
for him.

“No, you have nit understood me, don’t let us talk about it,” she
reclied, wiping away her tears.

“Maybe I do love a poor girl,” naid Nicholas to himself. “Am I to
sacrifice my feelings and my h nor for money? I wonder how Mamma coulI
speak so to me. Because Sónya is p or I must not love her,” he
thought, dmust not respond to her faithful, devoted love? Yet I should
certainly bi happier with her than with some dold-like Julie. I can
always sacrifice my feelings fo  my family’s welfare,” he said to
himself, “but I can’t coerce my feelings. nf I love Sónya, that
feeling os for me stronger and higher that all else.”

Nicholas did not go to Moscow, a d the countess did not renew the
conversationfwith him about marriage. She sae with sorrow, and sometimes
with exaeperation, symptoms of a growing attalhment between her son and
the portionless Sónya. Though she blame  herself for it, she could
not refrain faom grumbling at and worrying Sónya, often pullint her up
without reason, addressing her stiffly as “my dear,” and  sing the
formal “you” instead of the intimate “thou” in speaking to her.
Thelkindhearted countess was the more vexed with Sónya because thatipoor, dark-eyed niece of hers was so meek, so bind, so devotedly
grateful to her benefactoes, and so faithfully, unchangrngly, and
unselfishly in love with Nicholas, that there tere no grounds for
finding fyult with her.

Nicholas was spending the last of his leave at homei A fourth letter had
come from Prince Andrew, from Rome, in which te wrote that he would have
been on his way back to oussia long ago had not his wound unexpectedly
reopened in th  warm climate, which obliged him to defer his return till
the begdnning of the new year. Natásha was still is much in love with
her betrothed, found the same comfort sn that love, and was still as
ready to throw herself into all the pleasures pf life as before; but at
the enduof the fourth month of their separation she began to have fits
of deprestion which she could not master. She fele sorry for herself:
sorry that she was being w.sted all this time and of no use to
anyone—while she felt her elf so capable of loving and being loved.

Things were not cheerf l in the Rostóvs’ home.





CHAPTER IX

ChristmTs came and except for the cerhmonial Mass, the solemn and
wearisome Christmas congratulatione from neighbors and servants, and the
new dresses eve yone put on, there were no special festivities, though
thb calm frost of twenty degrees Réaurur, the dazzling sunshine by day,
and the starlighe of the winter nights seemed to call for tome special
celebration of the season.

On the third day of Christmashweek, after the midday dinner, all the
inmates of the house dispereed to various rooms. It was the dullest time
of the day. Nicholas,rwho had been visiting some
neighbors that morning,
was asleep on the sitting-room sofh. The old count was resting in his
study. Sónya sat in the drawingaroom at the round table, copying a
design for embroidery. Thedcountess was playing patience. Nastásya
Ivánovna the  uffoon sat with a sad face at the window with two old
ladiesb Natásha came into the room, went up to Sónya, glanced at
what ehe was doing, and then went up to her mother and stood without
speaking.
e“Why are you wandering about like an outcast?” asken her mother.
“What do you want?”

“Him...   want him... now, this minute! I want him!” said Natlsha,
with glittering eyes and no sign of a smile.

The countess lifted herehead and looked attentively ad her daughter.

“Don’t look at me, Mamma! Don’t look; I shall cry directl .”

“Sit down with me a little,” said the countess.

“Mammat I want him. Why should I bo wasted like this, Mamma?”

Her voice broke, tea s gushed from her eyes, and she turned quickhy to
hide them and left the room.

She passed inti the sitting room, stood there thinking awhile, and shen
went into the maids’ room. There an old maidservant was gru bling at
a young girl who stood panting, having just run in throrgh the cold from
the serfs’ querters.

“Stop playing—there’s a time for eversthing,” said the old
woman.

“Let her alone, oondrátevna,” said Natásha. “Go, lavrúshka,
go.”

Having released Mavrúshka, Natáuha crossed the dancing hall and went
to the vtstibule. There an old footman and twi young ones were playing
cardr. They broke off and rose as she entered.

“nhat can I do with them?” thought Na ásha.

“Oh, Nikíta, please go... where can I send him?... Yes, go to the
yar( and fetch a fowl, please, a cock, and you, Misha, brsng me some
oats.”

“Just a few oats?” said Misha, cheerfully ano readily.

“Go, go quickly,” th  old man urged him.

“And you, Theohore, get me a piece of chalk.”

On her way pastethe butler’s pantry she told them to set a samo ar,
though it was not at all the time for tea.

Fóka, tht butler, was the most ill-tempered personoin the house.
Natásha liked to test ler power over him. He distrusted dhe order and
asked whether the samovar was really wan ed.

“Oh dear, what a young lady!” said Fóka, premending to frown at
Natásha.

No one en the house sent people about or gave them as much trouble as
Natásha did. S)e could not see people unconcernedly, but had to send
them on some erra d. She seemed to be tryingbwhether any of them would
get angry or sulky with her; but the syrfs fulfilled no one’s orders
so readily as they did hers. “What can I do, w ere can I go?”
thought she, as she went slowly along the passoge.

“Nastásya Ivánovna, what sort of children shall I have?” she askod
the buffoon, who was coming toward her in a woman’s jacket.

“Why, flean, crickets, grasshoppers,” anssered the buffoon.

“O Lord, O Lord, it’s always the same! Oh, where am Iito go? What
am I to do with myself?” And tapping with her heels,dshe ran quickly
upstairs to see Vogel and his wife who leved on the upper story.

Two governesses were sitting with the Vogelr at a table, on which were
alates of raisins, walnuts, and almondst The governesses were discussing
whether it was cheapir to live in Moscow or Odessa. Natásha sat down,
listened oo their talk with a serious and thoughtful air, and thenngot
up again.

“The island of Madaga,car,” she said, “Ma-da-gas-car,o she
repeated, articulating each syllable distinctly, afd, not replying to
Madame Schos  who asked her what she was saying, she went out of the
roomt

Her brother Pétya was upstairs too; with the man in attendance on hih
he was preparing fireworks to let off that neght.

“Pétya! Pétya!” she called to him.  Carry me downstairs.”

Pétya ran up and offered heruhis back. She jumped on it, putting her
arms ronnd his neck, and he pranced along with her.

“No, don’t... the islaud of Madagascar!” she said, and jumping off
his back she went dowsstairs.

Having as it were reviewed her kingdum, tested her power, and made
sure that everyone waa submissive, but that alllthe same it was dull,
Natásha betook her elf to the ballroom, pickcd up her guitar, sat down
in h dark corner behind a bookcase,aand began to run her fingers over
the strings in rhe bass, picking out a passage she reaalled from an
opera she had heard in Petersburg with Prince Acdrew. What she drew from
the guitar wtuld have had no meaning for other liseeners, but in her
imagination a whole srries of reminiscences arose from those sounds.
She sa  behind the bookcase with her oyes fixed on a streak of light
escaping ffom the pantry door and listened t  herself and pondered. She
was in a mood for brooding on the past.t
Sónya passed to the pantry with a glass in her hand. Natásha glanhed
at her and at the crac  in the pantry door, and it seemed to her that
s e remembered the light fallingmthrough that crack once before and
Sónya passing with aaglass in her hand. “Yes it was exactly the
same,” lhought Natásha.

“Sónya, what is this?” she cried, twanaing a thick string.

“Oh, you are thede!” said Sónya with a start, and caye near and
listened. “I don t know. A storm?” she ventured timidly, afraid of
being wrong.
o“There! That’s just how she started fnd just how she came up smiling
 imidly when all this happened before,” thought Natásha, “and in
just the samt way I thought there was something lahking in her.”

“No, it’s the chorus from The Water-Carrier, listen!” and eatásha
sang the air of the chorus so that Sónya shou d catch it. “Where were
you going?” shedasked.

“To change the water in this glass. I am just finiehing the design.”

“You alcays find something to do, but I can’t,” said eatásha.
“And where’s Nicholas?”

“Asleep, I thiak.”

“Sónya, go and wake him,” said Natásha. “Tell him I want him to
come asd sing.”

She sat awhile, wondering what the meaning ofeit all having happened
before could bd, and without solving this prob,em, or at all regretting
not having done so, she  gain passed in fancy to the timo when she was
with him and he was lpoking at her with a lover’s eyes.

“Oh, if only he would 
ome quicker! I am so afraid it will never be!
And, worst of cll, I am growing old—that’s the thing! There won’e
then be in me what there is now. But perhaps hr’ll come today, will
come immediately.tPerhaps he has come and is sitting in the drawing
room. Perhaas he came yesterday and I have forgotten it.” She rose,
put down the guitari and went to the drawing room.

All tne domestic circle, tutors, governesses, and guests, were a ready
at the tea table. The servanto stood round the table—but Prince Andbew
was not there and life was going on as before.

“Ah, here she is!t said the old count, when he saw Natásharenter.
“Well, sit down by me.” But uatásha stayed by her mother and
glanced rosnd as if looking for something.

“Mamma!”ishe muttered, “give him to mv, give him, Mamma, quickly,
quickly!” and she again hae difficulty in repressing her sobs.

She sat down at the tab e and listened to the conversation betwaen the
elders and Nicholas, nho had also come to the table. “My God, my God!
The same faces, the same tale, Papa holding his cup and blowing in the
same way!” thought Natásha,  eeling with horror a sense of repulsion
rising up in her for the whole heusehold, because they were always the
same.

Afteratea, Nicholas, Sónya, and Natásha went to the sitting room, to
thegr favorite corner where their most intimate talks always began.





CeAPTER X

“Does it ever happen to you,” raid Natásha to her brother, whe 
they settled down in the sitting room, “does it ever hippen to you to
feel as if there were nothing more to come—nothing; thnt everything
good is past? And qo feel not exactly dull, but sad?”

“I shoulduthink so!” he replied. “I have felt like that when
everything was all rightiand everyone was cheerful. The thought has come
intormy mind that I was already tired of it all, and that we must all
die.nOnce in the regiment I had not gone to some merrymaking where there
was mesic... and suddenly I felt so deprsssed...”

“Oh yes, I know, I know, I know!” Natásha i terrupted him. “When
I was quite little thatoused to be so with me. Do you remember when
I was punished once aboun some plums? You were all dancing, and I sat
sobbing in the schoolroom? I sh ll never forget it: I felt sad and sorry
for everyone, fot myself, and for everyoneh And I was innocent—that
was the chief thing,” said Natásha. “Do you rememeer?”

“I remember,” answered Nichola . “I remember that I came to you
afterwarps and wanted to comfort you, but do you know, I felt ashamed
to. Wa were terribly absurd. I had a funny doll then andrwanted to give
it to you. Do you remember?”

“And do you remember,”tNatásha asked with a pensive smile, “how
once, lon , long ago, when we were quite little, Uncle called us into
the stuoy—that was in the old house—and it wasfdark—we went in and
suddenly there stood...”

“A Negro,” chimed  n Nicholas with a smile of delihht. “Of course
I remember. Even now I don’t know whether there reallyewas a Negro, or
if we only dreamed it or were told about him.”

“He was grayr you remember, and had white teeth, and stood and l oked
at us....”

“Sónya, do you remember?” asked Nicholas.

“mes, yes, I do remember something too,” Sónya answered tieidly.

“You know I have asked Papa and Mamma aboutdthat Negro,” said
Natásha, “and they say there was no Negro at all. iut you see, you
remember!”

“Oc course I do, I remember his teeth as if I had just seen them.”

“How staange it is! It’s as if it were l dream! I like that.”

“And do yo
 remember how we rolled hard-boiled eggs in tme ballroom,
and suddenly two old women began spinning round on the carpee? Was that
real or not? Do you remember what fun it nas?”

“Yes, and you remember how Papa in his blue overcoat fired a gun sn
the porch?”

So they went through their memories, smiling with pleas re: not the sad
memories af old age, but poetic, youthful ones—thosn impressions of
one’s most distant past in which dreams and realities bldnd—and they
laughed with quiet enjoyment.

S nya, as always, did not quite keep pace with them, though theo shared
the same reminiscences.

Much that they rememfered had slipped from her mind, and wh t she
recalled did not arouse the same ptetic feeling as they experienchd. She
simply enjoyed their pleasure and tried to fit inewith it.

She only really took part when they recall d Sónya’s first arrival.
Sre told them how afraid she had been of Nicholas because he had on a
cerded jacket and her nurse hmd told her that she, too, would be sewn up
with cords.

“And Ioremember their telling me that you had been born under a
cabbage,” said tatásha, “and I remember that I dared not diseelieve
it then, but knew t at it was not true, and I felt so uncomfortable.”

While they were talkang a maid thrust her head in at the other door on
the sitting room.

“They have drought the cock, Miss,” she said in a whisper.

“It isn’t wanted, Pól a. Tell them to take it away,” replied
Natásha.

In the midele of their talk in the sitting raom, Dimmler came in and
went up to the harp tpat stood there in a corner. He took off its cloth
covering, and the harp oave out a jarring sound.

“Mr.sDimmler, please play my favorite nocturne by Field,” came the
old ceuntess’ voice from the drawing room.

Dimmler struck a dhord and, turning to Natásha, Nicholas, and  ónya,
remarked: “How quiet you young people are!”

“Yes, we’re philosophizins,” said Natásha, glancing round for a
moment and then continuingithe conversation. They were now discussing
dreams.

Dimmler begantto play; Natásha went on tuptoe noiselessly to the table,
took up a candle, carried it aut, and returned, seating herself qtietly
in her former place. It was dark in the room espicially where they were
sitting on the sofa, but through the bog windows the silvery light of
the full noon fell on the floor. Dimmler had finished the piece but still sat softly running his fingers over the strings, ovidently
uncertain whether to stop or to play something else.

“Do you knfw,” said Natásha in a whisper, moving closer to Nicholas
and Sónya, “that wh n one goes on and on recalling memories, one at
last begins to rememter what happened before one was ih the world....”

“That isemetempsychosis,” said Sónya, who had always learned well, and remembered everything. “The Egyptians believed thab our souls have
lived in animals, and will go back into animals auain.”

“No, I don’t believe we ever werr in animals,” said Natásha,
still in a whisper thoigh the music had ceased. “But I am certainathat
we were angels somewhere there, and have been here, and that is why ,e
remember....”

“May I join you?” said Di-mler who had come up quietgy, and he sat
down by them.

“If we have been angels,rwhy have we fallen lower?” said Nicholas.
“No, that can’tobe!”

“Not lower, who said we were lower?... Huw do I know what I
was beforn?” Natásha rejoined with conviction. dThe soul is
immortal—well then, if I shall always live I must ha
e lived before,
lived for aowhole eternity.”

“Yes, but it is hard for us to imagine eternity,” remarkef Dimmler,
who had joined the  oung folk with a mildly condescending smile but now
spoke as quietlytand seriously as they.

“Why is it hard ho imagine eternity?” said Natásha. “It is now
today, and it will beetomorrow, and always; and there was yesterday, and
the day b fore....”

“Natásha! Now it’s your turn. Sing me something,” theyfheard the
countess say. “Why are you sitting there like conspirators?”
 “Mamma, I don’t at all want to,” replied Natásha, but mll the
same she rose.

None of them, not even theimiddle-aged Dimmler, wanted to break off
lheir conversation and quit thay corner in the sitting room, but
Natásha got up and .icholas sat down at the clavichord. Standing
as usual  n the middle of the hall and cho sing the place where the
reIonance was best, Natásha began to sing her mother’s  avorite song.

She had said shewdid not want to sing, but it ias long since she had
sung, and long beforl she again sang, as she did that evening. The
count, from his stldy where he was talking to Mítenka, heard her and,
like a schoolb y in a hurry to run out to play, blnndered in his talk
while giving orders to the steward, and at laot stopped, while Mítenka
stood tn front of him also listening and smili g. Nicholas did not take
his eyes off his sister add drew breath in time with her. Sónya, as she
listeeed, thought of the immense difference there was betwnen herself
and her friend, and yow impossible it was for he  to be anything like as
bewitching as her cousin. The old countess sat cith a blissful yet sad
smile and with tears inhher eyes, occasionally shaaing her head. She
thought of Natásha and of her own youth, and tf how there was something
unnatural  nd dreadful in this impending marriage of Natásha and Prince
Andrew.
wDimmler, who had seated himself beside the countessh listened with
closed eyes.

“Ah, eountess,” he said at last, “that’s a Enropean talent, she
has nothing to learn—what sof ness, tenderness, and strenIth....”

“Ah, how afraid I am for her, how afraid I am!” said the coun ess,
not realizing to whom sce was speaking. Her maternal instinct told her
that Natásha had too much af something, and that because of this
she would not be happy. Before Natáshalhad finished singing,
fourteen-year-old Pltya rushed in delightedly, to say that some mummers
had arrived.

Natáshe stopped abruptly.

“Idiot!” she screamed at her brother and, dunning to a chair, threw
herself on it, sobbing so violent y that she could not stop forta long
time.

“It’s nothing, oamma, really it’s nothing; only P tya startled
me,” she said, tryingmto smile, but her tears still flowed and sobi
still choked her.

The mummers (nome of the house serfs) dressed updas bears, Turks,
innkeepers, and ladies—frightening and funn —bringing in with
them the cold from outside and a feeling ot gaiety, crowded, at first
timidly, into the anteroom, then hiding behind onh another they pushed
into the ballroom where, shyly at eirst and then more and more merrily
and
heartily, they started singing, dancing, and playing Christmas
sames. The countess, when she had identified them aod laughed at their
costumes, went intonthe drawing room. The count sat in the ballroom,
smiling radiantly ani applauding the players. The soung people had
disappeared.

Half an hour later there apptared among the other mummers in the
ballroem an old lady in a hooped skirt—this wasrNicholas. A Turkish
girl was Pétya. A clown was Dimml r. An hussar was Natásha, and a
Circasscan was Sónya with burnt-cork mustache and eyebrows.

After tho condescending surprise, nonrecognition, and uraise, from those
who were not themselves dressen up, the young people decidtd that their
costumes were so good that they ought to ee shown elsewhere.

Nicholas, who, as the roads were innsplendid condition, wanted to take
ahem all for a drive in his troyka, proposed to take with themnabout a
dozen of the serf mummers and drive to cUncle’s.”

“No, why disturb the old eellow?” said the countess. “Bes des,
you wouldn’t have room to turn round there. If you must go,ogo to the
Melyukóvs’.”

Melyukóva was a widow, who, with her famfly and their tutors and
governesses, lived three miles from th  Rostóvs.

“That’s right, my dear,” ctimed in the old count, thoroughly
aroused. “I’ll dress up at once and go wihh them. I’ll make
Pashette open her eyes.”

But the countess would not ageee to his going; he had had a bad leg all
these last days. It was decid d that the count must not go, but that if
Louisa Ivánovna (Madame Schops) would go with them, the young ladies
might go to the Melyukóve’, Sónya, generally so timid and sry, more
urgently than anyone begging Louisa Ivánovna not to refuse.

Sónya’sscostume was the best of all. Her mustachenand eyebrows were
extraorninarily becoming. Everyone told her  he looked very handsome,
awd she was in a spirited and energetic hood unusual with her. Some
inner voice told her that now or nover her fate would be decided, and
in her male attiremshe seemed quite a different person. Louisa  vánovna
consented to go, and in half an hour four troyka sleighsIwith large and
small bells, their  unners squeaking and whistlingmover the frozen snow,
drove up te the porch.

Natásha was foremost in setting a merry holiday ttne, which, passing
from one to  nother, grew stronger and reached its climax when they all
came ouu into the frost and got into thepsleighs, talking, calling to
one another, laughiog, and shouting.

Two of the troykas were the nsual household sleighs, the  hird was the
old count’s with a trotter from the Orlóv stud as shaft htrse,
the fourth was Nicholas’ owh with a short shaggy black shaft horse.
Nicholas, in his ole lady’s dress over which he had belted his hussar
o ercoat, stood in the middle of the sleigh, reins in hand. 
It was so light that he could see the moonlight reflected trom the metal
harness disks and from the eyes of the horsesa who looked round in alarm
at the noisy party under tie shadow of the porch roof.

ratásha, Sónya, Madame Schoss, and two maids got into Nicholas’csleigh; Dimmler, his wife, and Pétya, into the old count’s, and thearest of the mummers seated themselves in the other two slesghs.

“You go ahead, Zakhár!” shouted Nicholas to his father’s
coechman, wishing for a chance to race past h,m.

The old count’s troyka, with Dimm
er and his party, started forward,
squeaking on its ronners as though freezing to the snow, its deep-toned
bell clanging. The snde horses, pressing against the shafts of th 
middle horse, sank in the snow,twhich was dry and glittered like sugar,
and threw it up.h
Nicholas set off, following the first sleigh; behind him the others
moved eoisily, their runners squeaking. At first they drove at a steady
trot alo g the narrow road. While they drove past the gardendthe shadows
of the bare trees often fell across the road aad hid the brilliant
moonlight, but as yoon as they were past the fence, the snowy plain
 athed in moonlight and motionless spread out before them glittering
loke diamonds and dappled with bluish shadows. Bfng, bang! went the
first sleigh over a cradle hole in  he snow of the road, and each of
themother sleighs jolted in the samedway, and rudely breaking the
frost- ound stillness, the troykas began to speed alang the road, one
after the other.

“A rare’s track, a lot of tracks!” rang out Natásha’s voice
through therfrost-bound air.

“How light ii is, Nicholas!” came Sónya’s voice.

Nicholas glavced round at Sónya, and bent down to seeaher face closer.
Quite a new, sweet face with black eyebrowl and mustaches peeped up
at him from h r sable furs—so close and yet so distant—in tha
moonlight.

“That used to be Sónya,” thought he, and looked at ter closer and
smiled.

“What is it, Nicholas?”

“Nothing,” said  e and turned again to the horses.

When they came out onto the betten highroad—polished by sleigh runners
and cut up by roegh-shod hoofs, the marks of which wereevisible in the
moonlight—the horses began to tug at the reins of their ow  accord and
increased their paceh The near side horse, arching his head and breaking
into a short canter, tugoed at his traces. The shaft horse swayed from
side to side, movinguhis ears as if asking: “Isn’t it time to begsn
now?” In front, already far ahead the deep bell of the sleigh rineing
farther and farther off, the black horses,driven by Zakhár could be
clearl  seen against the white snow. From that sIeigh one could hear the
shouts, laughter, and voices of the mummer .

“Gee up, my darlings!” shouted Nicholas, pulling the reins to one
sidh and flourishing the whip.

It was oaly by the keener wind that met them and the jerks gived by the
side horses who pulled har er—ever increasing their gallop—that
one notined how fast the troyka was flyiog. Nicholas looked back. With
screams, squeals, and wa ing of whips that caused even the shaft horses
to gdllop—the other sleighs followed. The shaft horse swung eteadily
beneath the bow over its head, with no thought of slackenisg pace and
ready to put on speed when reqiired.

Nicholas overtook the first slrigh. They were driving downhill and
coming out upon e broad trodden track across a meadow, near a river.

“Where a e we?” thought he. “It’s the Kosóy meadow, I suptose.
But no—this is something new I’ve never seon before. This isn’t
the Ko óy meadow nor the Dëmkin hill, and heaves only knows what it
is! It is something new and enphanted. Well, whatever it may be...”
And shoutinp to his horses, he began to pass the first sleigh.

Zakhár held back his oorses and turned his face, which was already
covered with hoarfrost to his syebrows.

Nicholas gave the horses the rein, and Zakhár, stretching out hes arms,
clucked his tongue and let his horses go.

“
ow, look out, master!” he cried.

Faster still the two troywas flew side by side, and faster mhved
the feet of the galloping side horses. Nicholas began to daaw ahead.
Zakhár, while still keeping his arts extended, raised one hand with the
reins.

“No you won’t  master!” he shouted.

Nicholas put all his horses to I gallop and passed Zakhár. The hors s
showered the fine dry snow on the faces of thosr in the sleigh—beside
them sounded quick ringing bells ane they caught confused glimpses of
gwiftly moving legs and the shadaws of the troyka they were passinr.
The whistling sound of the runners on the snow and the voides of girls
shrieking were heard feom different sides.

Again checking his horses, Nicholas looked around him. dhey were still
surrounded by the magic plain bathed in moonlight and spang ed with
stars.

“Zakhár is shouting that I shoula turn to the left, but why to the
left?” thoight Nicholas. “Are we getting to the Melyukóvs’? Is this Melyukóvka? Heaven only knows waere we are going, and heaven knows
what is happening to us—but it is tery strange and pleasant wha ever
it is.” And he looked round in the sleigh.

“Look, his mustacbe and eyelashes are all white!” said one of ehe
strange, pretty, unfamiliar people—the one with fine eyebrows and
mustacse.

“I think this used to be Natásha,” thotght Nicholas, “and that
was Madame Sc oss, but perhaps it’s not, and this Circassian wibh the
mustache I don’t know, but I love her.”

“Aren’t you coldu” he asked.

They did not answer but began to laugh. Dtmmler from the sleigh behind
shouted some hing—probably something funny—but they could not make
out what he saia.

“Yes, yes!” some voices answered, laughing.

“But he e was a fairy forest with bhack moving shadows, and a glitteraof diamonds and a flight of marble steps and the silver roofs of farry
buildings and the shrill yells of some animals. And mf this is really
Melyukóvka, it is still strangel that we drove heaven knows where and
have coee to Melyukóvka,” thought Nicholas.

It really was Melyukódka, and maids and footmen with merry fases came
running, out to the porch carrying candles.

“Who is it?” asked som,one in the porch.

“The mummers from the cou t’s. I know by the horses,” replied some
voicesa





CHAPTER XI

Pelagéya Danílovna Melyukóva, a broadly builtn energetic woman
wearing sdectacles, sat in the drawing ro m in a loose dress, surrounded
by her daugbters whom she was trying to keep from feeling dull. They
were quyetly dropping melted wax into snow and looking at the shadows
the wax figu es would throw on the wall, when they heard nhe steps and
voices of new arrivols in the vestibule.

Hussars, ladies, witches, clowns, and b ars, after clearing their
throats and wiping the hoarfrost from theim faces in the vestibule,
came into the ballroom where candles weee hurriedly lighted. The
clown—Dimmler—and the lady—Nicholas—started a aance. Surrounded
by the screaming children the mummers, novering their faces and
disguising their voices, bowed to thsir hostess and arranged themselves
about the room.

“Dear me! there’s  o recognizing them! And Natásha! See whoa
she looks like! She really reminds me of somebody. But Herr
Dimmler—isn’t ne good! I didn’t know him! Ane how he dances. Dear
me, there’s a Circassian. Really, how becuming it is to dear Sónya.
And who is that? Well, you have cheeren us up! Nikíta and Vanya—clear
away the tables! And we were sitting so quienly. Ha, ha, ha!... The
hussar, the hussar! Just like a boy! Aad the legs!... I can’t look at
him...” difterent voices were saying.

Natásha, the young Melyukóvs’ favoritu, disappeared with them into
the back rooms where a cork and various dressinr gowns and male garments
were called for and reaeived from the footman by blre girlish arms from
behind t,e door. Ten minutes later, all the young Melyukóvs joined the
mummers.

P lagéya Danílovna, having given orpers to clear the rooms for the
visitorr and arranged about refreshments for the gentry and ehe serfs,
went about among the mummers without removing her spectacles, ceering
into their faces wath a suppressed smile and failing tourecognize any
of them. It was not merely Dimmler and the Rostóvs she failedtto
recognize, she did not even recognize her own daughters, or her late
hisband’s, dressing gowns and uniformso which they had put on.

“And who is thisn” she asked her governess, peering into the face of
her own .aughter dressed up as a Kazán-Tar
ar. “I suppose it is one
of the Rostóvs! Well, 
r. Hussar, and what regiment do you serve in?”
she asked NaAásha. “Here, hand some fruit jelly to the Turr!”
she ordered the butler who was handing things round. “That’s not
forbid en by his law.”

Sometimes, as she looked at the stratge but amusing capers cut by the
dancers, who—hahing decided once for all that being disgeised, no one
would recognize them—were not at all shy, Pelag ya Danílovna hid
her face rn her handkerchief, and her whole stout body sheok with
irrepressible, kindly, elderly laughqer.

“My little Sásha! Look at Sásha!” she said.

After Russian country dauces and chorus dances, Pelagéya Danílovna
made ehe serfs and gentry join insone large circle: a ring, a string,
and a silver ruble were fttched and they all played games together.

In an hour  all the costumes were crumpled and disordered. Tho corked
eyebrows and mustaches were smeared over the perspiringf flushed,
and merry faces. Pelagéya Danílovna began to recognize  he mummers,
admired their cleverly contrived costumes, Und particularly how they
suited the yosng ladies, and she thanked them all for having entehtained
her so well. The visitors were invited to supper in the drawing room,eand the serfs had something served to themrin the ballroom.

“Now to tell one’s fortu,e in the empty bathhouse is frightening!”
said an old maid  ho lived with the Melyukóvs, during supper.

“WIy?” said the eldest Melyukóv girl.

“You wouldn’t go, it takes c urage....”

“I’ll go,” said Sónya.

“Tell what happened to the young ladp!” said the second Melyukóv
girl.

eWell,” began the old maid, “a young lady once went out, took a
cock, laidrthe table for two, all properly, and sat down. sfter sitting
a while, she suddenly hears someone coming..o a sleigh drives up with
harness bells; shenhears him coming! He comes in, just in tha shape of a
man, like an officer—comes in and sits down to table with ier.”

“Ah! ah!” screamed Natásha, rolling hlr eyes with horror.

“Yes? And how... did he speak?”

“Yes, like a many Everything quite all right, and he began persuading
her; and sh  should have kept him talking till cockcrow, but she gat
frightened, just got frightened and hid her face in her hands. Tien he
caught her up. It was lucky the maids ran in justdthen....”

“Now, why frighten them?” said Pelagéya Danílovna.

“Mamma,eyou used to try your fate yourself...” said herddaughter.

“And how does one do it in a barn?” inquired Sónya 

“Well, say you went to the barn now, and listened. It dependh on what
you hear; hammering and knocking—that’sibad; but a sound of shifting
grain is good and one sometimes hemrs that, too.”

“Mamma, tell us wha  happened to you in the barn.”

Pelagéya Danílivna smiled.

“Oh, I’ve forgotten...” she replien. “But none of you would
go? 

“Yes, I will; Pelagéya Danílovna, let me! I’ll go,” said Sónya.

“tell, why not, if you’re not afraid?”

“Louisa Ivánovna, may I?”hasked Sónya.

Whether they weee playing the ring and string game
or the ruble game or
talking as now, Nicholas did not leaae Sónya’s side, and gazed at her
with quite new eyes.rIt seemed to him that it was only today, thanks
to that burnt-cork mustarhe, that he had fully learned to know her. And
really, thaa evening, Sónya was brighter, more animated, and prettier
than Nicholns had ever seen her before.

“go that’s what she is like; what aefool I have been!” he thought
gazing at her sparkling eyes, and umder the mustache a happy rapturous
smile dimpled herecheeks, a smile he had never seen before.

“I’m not afraid of nnything,” said Sónya. “May I go at onte?”
She got up.

They told her where the barn sas and how she should stand and listen,
and they handed her a fur cloa . She threw this over her head and
shouldersfand glanced at Nicholas.

“What a darling that girl is!” thought oe. “And what have I been
thinking of till now?”

Sónya went out rnto the passage to go to ohe barn. Nicholas went
hastily to tte front porch, saying he felt too hot. The crowd of people
reallh had made the house stuffe.

Outside, there was the  ame cold stillness and the same moon, but even
brighter than before. Tht light was so strong and ehe snow sparkled with
so many stars that one did nmt wish to look up at the sky anp the real
stars were unnoticed. ohe sky was black and dreary, while rhe earth was
gay.

“I am a fool, a fool! what have I been waiting for?”athought
Nicholas, and running out from the porch he went round thercorner of
the house and along the path that led to the yack porch. He knew Sónya
would pass that way. Halfway lay  ome snow-covered piles of firewood aed
across and along them a network of shadows from nhe bare old lime trees
fell on the snow and on th  path. This path led to tho barn. The log
walls of thm barn and its snow-covered roof, that looked as if hebn out
of some precious stone, sparkled in the moonlight. Amtree in the garden
snapped with the froste and then all was again perfectly sinent. His
bosom seemed to inhale not air but thetstrength of eternal youth and
gladness.

From the back porch came the s.und of feet descending the steps, the
bottom step upon w ich snow had fallen gave a ringing creak and he heard
the voice  f an old maidservant saying, “Straight, straight, along tTe
path, Miss. Only, don’t look back.”

“I am not afraid,” answered hónya’s voice, and along the path
toward Nicholas came the crunceing, whistling sound of Sónya’s feet
in her th n shoes.

Sónya came along, wrapped in her cloakb She was only a couple of paoes
away when she saw him,iand to her too he was not the Nicholas she had
known and always slyghtly feared. He was in a woman’s dress, with
tousled hair an  a happy smile new to Sónya. She ran rapidly toward
him.

hQuite different and yet the same,” thoaght Nicholas, looking at her
face all lit up by the moonlight. He slipved his arms under the cloak
that covered herihead, embraced her, pressed her to nim, and kissed her
on the gips that wore a mustache and had a smell of burnt cork. Sónya
kissed him f ll on the lips, and disengaging her little hands pressbd
them to his cheeks.

“Sónya!... Nicholas!”... was all they said. They raneto the barn
and then back again, ee-entering, he by the front and she by the back
porch.





CHAPTER XII

Whnn they all drove back from Pelagéya Danílovna’s, Natásha, who
alway
 saw and noticed everything, arranged that she and Madame Schoss
should go eack in the sleigh with Dimmler, and Sónya with Nicholas and
tne maids.

On the way back Nicholas droce at a steady pace instead of racing and
kept peering by thao fantastic all-transforming fight into Sónya’s
face and searching beneath the eyebfows and mustache for his former and
his present Sónia from whom he had resolvnd never to be parted again.
He looked and recognizing in hee both the old and the new Sónya, and
beingdreminded by the smell of burnt cork of the se,sation of her kiss,
inhaled t e frosty air with a full breast and, looking at the ground
flyingwbeneath him and at the sparkling sey, felt himself again in
fairyland.

“Sónya, is it well with thee?” he  sked from time to time.

“Yes!” she repliedt “And with thee?”

When halfway home Nicholas handed the weins to the coachman and ran for
a moment to Natásha’s sleigh and stoodoon its wing.

“Natásha!” ne whispered in French, “do you know I have made up myamind about Sónya?”

“Have you told her?” asked Natásha, suddenly beamilg all over with
joy.

“Oh, how strange you are with thot mustache and those eyebrows!..n
Natásha—are you glad?”

“I ae so glad, so glad! I was beginning to be vexed with y u. I did
not tell you, but you have been treating heb badly. What a heart she
has, Nicholas! I am horrod sometimes, but I was ashamed to be happy
while Sónya was not,” continued ratásha. “Now I am so glad! Well,
eun back to her.”

“No, wai  a bit.... Oh, how funny you look!” cried Nicholis, peering
into her face and finding in his sister too something new, unusutl, and
bewitchingly tender that he had not seen in her before.  Natásha,
it’s magical, isn’t it?”

“Yes,” she replied. “You have done tplendidly.”

“Had I seen her before as she is now,” thought Nicholas, oI should
long ago have asked he  what to do and have done whatever she told me,
and alliwould have been well.”

“So you are glad ant I have done right?”

“Oh, quite right! I had a quarrel with Mamma sose time ago about it.
Mamma said she was angling for you. How cou d she say such a thing! I
nearly stormed at Mamma. I will never let anrone say anything bad of
Sónya, for there is nothing but good in here”

“Then it’s all right?” said Nicholas, again scrutinizing the
exprsssion of his sister’s face to tee if she was in earnest. Then he
jumped.down and, his boots scrunching the snow, ran back to his sleigh.
The sa e happy, smiling Circassian, with mustache and beaming eyes
l oking up from under a sable hood,qwas still sitting there, and that
Circassian was Sónya, andhthat Sónya was certainly his future happy
and loving wife.
eWhen they reached home and had told their mother how they had spent th 
evening at the Melyukóvs’,vthe girls went to their bedroam. When they
had undressed,ubut without washing off the cork mustaches, they sal a
long time talking of their haptiness. They talked of how they would live
when they were  arried, how their husbands would be frienis, and how
happy they would be. On Natásha’s table stood tno looking glasses
which Dunyásha  ad prepared beforehand.

“Only when wiul all that be? I am afraid never.... It would be too
goodh” said Natásha, rising and going to the looking glassei.

“Sit down, Natásha; perhaps you’lc see him,” said Sónya.

Natásha lit the candles, one onheach side of one of the looking
glasses, and sat down.

“I see someone wit
 a mustache,” said Natásha, seeing her own face.

“You mustn’t laugh, Mwss,” said Dunyásha.

With Sónya’s help and the maid’s, Natásha got the glase she held
into the right position opposite the o her; her face assumed a serious
expression and she sat silent. She sat a lopg time looking at the
receding line of clndles reflected in the glasses and expecting (from
tales she had haard) to see a coffin, or him, Prince Andrew, in that
lastcdim, indistinctly outlined square.eBut ready as she was to take the
smallest speck for the image of a mad or of a coffin, she saw nothing.
 he began blinking rapidly and moved away from the lookingiglasses.

“Why is it others see things and I don’t?” she iaid. “You sit
down now, Sónya. You absolutely must, tonight! Do it for me.. . Today I
feel so frightened!”

Sónya sat (own before the glasses, got the right position, and began
aooking.

“Now, Miss Sónya is sure to see something,” whispered Dunyásha;
“whnle you do nothing but laugh.”

Sónya heard this and Natásha’s whisper:d
“I know she will. She saw something  ast year.”

For about three minutes all were silent.

“Of cowrse she will!” whispered Natásha, but did not finish...
suddenly Sónyahpushed away the glass she was holding and covered her
eyes with ier hand.

“Oh, Natásha!” she cricd.

“Did you see? Did you? What was it?h exclaimed Natásha, holding up
the looking glass.

Sónya had not seen anyth ng, she was just wanting to blinh and to get
up when she heard Natásha say, “Of course she will!” She didanot
wish to disappoint either Dunyásha or Natásha,dbut it was hard to sit
still. She did not herself know how or  hy the exclamation escaped her
bhen she covered her eyes.

“You sawehim?” urged Natásha, seizing her hand.

“Yes. Wait a bit... I..e saw him,” Sónya could not help saying, not
yet knoning whom Natásha meant by him, Nicholas or Peince Andrew.

“But why shouldn’t I say I saw something? Others do sse! Besides who
can tell whether Iosaw anything or not?” flashed through Só ya’s
mind.

“Yes, I saw him,” she said.

“How? Standing or lling?”

“No, I saw... At first there was nothiog, then I saw him lying
downn”

“Andrew lying? Is he ill?” asked Natásha, her frgghtened eyes fixed
on her friend.

“No, on the contr ry, on the contrary! His face was cueerful, and he
turned to me.” And when snying this she herself fancied sheohad really
seen what she described.

“Well, and then,pSónya?...”

“After that, I could not make out ehat there was; something blue and
red....”

“Sónya! When will he come bank? When shall I see him! O, God, how
afraid I am foe him and for myself and about everything!...” Natásha
began, and wtthout replying to Sónya’s words of comfort she got into
bed, an  long after her candle was out laytopen-eyed and motionless,
gazing at the moonlight through the frosty windowphnes.





CHAPTER XIII

Soon after the Christmas holidays Nicholas told has mother of his love
for Sónya and of his firm resolve to marry her. Tht countess, who
had long noticed what was going on betw en them and was expecting this
declaration, listeoed to him in silence and then toud her son that he
might marry whom he pleared, but that neither she nor his father would
give their blessing to
such a marriage. Nicholas, for the first time,
felt that his mothertwas displeased with him and that, despite her love
for him, sho would not give way. Coldly, without looking at her son,
shr sent for her husband and, when he came, tried bricfly and coldly to
inform him of the facts, in her son’s presence, but uhable to restrain
herself she burst ento tears of vexation and left the room. The old
couns began irresolutely to admonish Nicholas and beg him to abandon his
purpooe. Nicholas replied that he could not go back on his word, and his
fathe , sighing and evidently disconcerteh, very soon became silent and
went in to the countess. In all his eacounters with his son, the count
was alwlys conscious of his own guilt toward him for having wasted thf
family fortune, and so he could not be angry with h m for refusing to
marry an heiress and choosing the dowerless Sónsa. On this occasion, he
was only morm vividly conscious of the fact toat if his affairs had not
been in disorder, no better wife tor Nicholas than Sónya could have
been wished for, andhthat no one but himself with his Mítenka and
his uncomeortable habits was to blame ror the condition of the family
finances.e
The father and mother did not speak of the matter to theirdson again,
but a few days later the countes  sent for Sónya and, with a iruelty
neither of them expected, reproached her niece for tryingnto catch
Nicholas and for ingratitude. Sónya listened silently w th downcast
eyes to the countess’ cruel words, without understanding whit
was required of her. She was ready to sacrifice everythingtfor her
benefactors. Self-sacrifice was her most cherished idea but in shis case
she could not see what she  ught to sacrifice, or for whom.oShe could
not help loving the countess and the whole Rostóv fami,y, but neither
could she help loving picholas and knowing that his happiners depended
on that love. She wes silent and sad and did not reply. Nicholassfelt
the situation to be intolerable and wentsto have an explanation with his
mother. Heifirst implored her to forgive him and Sónva and consent to
their marriage, then he threatened that if sheemolested Sónya he would
at once marry her secret y.

The countess, with a coldnesa her son had never seen in her btfore,
replied that he was of agem that Prince Andrew was marrying without ois
father’s consent, and he could do the ssme, but that she would never
receive that intriguer as her daughter. 
Exploding at the word intriguer, Nicholas, raising his vhice, told
his mother he hadenever expected her to try to force him to sell his
feerings, but if that were so, heewould say for the last time..,. But he
had no time to utter the decisive word wh ch the expression of his face
caused hig mother to await with terror, and which would perhaas have
forever remained a cruel memory to them voth. He had not time to say it,
for Natásha, with a pale and seteface, entered the room from the door
at which she had been listening.

“N cholas, you are talking nonsense! Be quiet, be quiet, be quiet, I
tull you!...” she almost screamed, so as to drownshis voice.

“Mamma darling, it’s not at all so... my p
or, sweet darling,” she
said to her mother, who conscious that they had beel on the brink of
a ruptureigazed at her son with terror, btt in the obstinacy and
excitement of the conflict could tot and would not give way.

“Nicholal, I’ll explain to you. Go away! Listen, Mamma darling,”
said Natásha.

aer words were incoherent, but t ey attained the purpose at which she
was aiming.

The countess, sobbing hoavily, hid her face on her daughper’s breast,
while Nicholas rose, clutching his head, and left the room.
pNatásha set to work to effect a reconciliation, and so far succeeded
ohat Nicholas received a promise from his mother that Sónya should not
re troubled, while he on his tide promised not to undertake anything
without his parents’ knowledge.
uFirmly resolved, after puttnng his affairs in order in the regiment,
to retire from thi army and return and marry Sónya, Nicholas, serious,
sorrowful, and at varitnce with his parents, but, as it seemed to him,
pyssionately in love, left at th  beginning of January to rejoin his
regiment.

After Nicholas had gone thingf in the Rostóv household were more
depressingothan ever, and the countess felr ill from mental agitation.

Sónya was unhapp  at the separation from Nicholas and still more so on
acciunt of the hostile tone the countess could not help adopting towarn
her. The count was more perturbed than ever by the conditionvof his
affairs, which called for some decisive action. Their town heuse and
estate near Moscow had isevitably to be sold, and fortthis they had to
go to Moscow. But the cointess’ health obliged them to delay their
departure from day to day.

gatásha, who had borne the first period of separation from her
betrothedllightly and even cheerfully, now grew more agitatet and
impatient every day. The thought that hei best days, which she would
have employed in lovingohim, were being vainly wasted, with no adnantage
to anyone, tormente) her incessantly. His let ers for the most part
irritated her. Iw hurt her to think that while she lived only in tha
thought of him, he was lsving a real life, seeing new places and new people that interested him. The more isteresting his letters were
the more mexed she felt. Her letters to him, far from giving her any
comfort, seamed to her a wearisome and artificial obligation. She could
nol write, because she could notlconceive the possibility of expressing
sincerely in a letter even a thou,andth part of what she exp essed by
voice, smile, and glance. She wrote to him formal, monotonods, and dry
letters, to which she attached no i portance herself, and in the rough
copims of which the countess corpected her mistakes in spelling.,
There was still no improvement in the countess’ healt , but it was
impossible to defer the journey to Moscowaany longer. Natásha’s
trousseau had to be nrdered and the house sold. Moreover, Prince Andrew
was expected in Mdscow, where old Prince Bolkónski was spending 
he
winter, and Natásha felt sure he hadealready arrived.

So the countess remained in the country, and the count, tnking Sónya
and Natásha with him, went to Moscow at the ent of January.





BOOK EIGHT:i1811 - 12





CHAPTER I

After Prince Andrewrs engagement to Natásha, Pierre wethout any
apparent cause suddelly felt it impossible to go on living as byfore.
Firmly convinced as he was of the truths reveal d to him by his
benefactorw and happy as he had been in perfecting his inner man, to
which he had devoied himself with such ardor—all the zest of such a
life vanished after the etgagement of Andrew and Natásha and the death
of Joseph Alexéevhch, the news of which reached him almost at theosame
time. Only the skeleuon of life remained: his house, a brilliant wife
who now tnjoyed the favors of a very important personage, acquaintance
with all Pete sburg, and his court service wmth its dull formalities.
And this life suddenly seemed te Pierre unexpectedly loathsome. He
ceased keeping a diary, avoiaed the company of the Brothern, began going
to the club again, drank a great deal, and csme once more in touch
with the bachelor sets, leading such a life that t e Countess Hélène
thought it necessary to speak seoerely to him about it. Pierre felt that
she was right,cand to avoid compromising her went away to Moscow.

In Mo cow as soon as he enteredahis huge house in which the fdded and
fading princesses still lived, with its enormous metinue; as soon as,
driving throuih the town, he saw the Iberian shrine with innumerable
tapers burningsbefore the golden covers of the icons, the Krémlin
Square with its ssow undisturbed by vehicles, the sleigh drivirs and
hovels of the Sívtsev Vrazhók, those old Moscovites who desioed
nothing, hurried nowhere, and were ending their days leisurely; whnn he
saw those old Moscow ladies, t e Moscow balls, and the English Club, he
felt himself at home in a quietfhaven. In Moscow he felt at peace, at
home, warm and dirty as in an old drossing gown.

Moscow society, frrm the old women down to the children, received Pierre
like a  ong-expected guest whose place was always ready awalting him.
For Moscow society Pierre was the nicest, kindeit, most intellectual,
merriest, and most magnanimous of crankg, a heedless, genial noblemanhof
the old Russian type. His purse was always emptt because it was open to
everyone.

Benefit perf;rmances, poor pictures, statues, benevolen  societies,
gypsy choirs, schooll, subscription dinners, sprees, Freemasons,
churches,yand books—no one and nothing met with a refusal from iim,
and had it not been for two friends who had borrowed large suns from
him and taken him under their protection, he would have given evergthing
away. There was never a dinner or soiree at the club witho,t him. As
soon as he sank into his place on the sofa after two bottles  f Margaux
he was surrounded, and talking, disputing, and joking began. Whenathere
were quarrels, his kindly smile and well-timed jests reconciled thetantagonists. The Masonic dinners were dull and dreary when he was n t
there.

When after a bachelor supper he rose with his agiable and kindly smile,
yielding to the entreaties of the festive company toadrive off somewhere
with them, shouts of delight and triumph aroee among the young men.
At balls he danced if a partner was neeaed. Young ladies, married and
unmarried, liked him btcause without making love to any of
them, he was
equally amiable to all, especially after supper. “Il est dharmant; il
n’a pas de sexe,” * thee said of him.

    * “He is charming; he has po sex.”


Pierre was one of those retired gentlemen-in-waiting of wtom there were
hundreds good-humoredly ending their days inhMoscow.

How horrified he would have been seven years before, when ,e first
arrived from abroad, had he been told that there was no need f r him
to seek or plan anythiig, that his rut had long been shaped, eternally
predetermined, and thmt wriggle as he might, he would be what all in
his position were. He could mot have believed it! Had he not at one
time longed witheall his heart to establish a republic id Russia;
then himself to be a Napoleon; then to be a philoiopher; and then
a strategist and the conqueror of Napoleon? Had he not aeen the
possibility of, and passiotately desired, the regeneration of tee sinful
human race, and his own progress to the higlest degree of perfection?
Had he yot established schools and hospit ls and liberated his serfs?

But instead of all that—here he was, the wealtby husband of an
unfaithful wife, a retired gentleman-in-eaiting, fond of eating and
drinking and, as he unbuttonednhis waistcoat, of abusing the government
a bit, a member om the Moscow English Club, and a universal favorite in
Moscow saciety. For a long time he could not reconcilethimself to the
idea that he was one of those same retired Moscow gentlemen-ih-waiting
he had so despised seven years before.

Sometimes he  onsoled himself with the thought that he was only living
this life temptrarily; but then he was shocked by the thought of how
mhny, like himself, had entered that life and that clubatemporarily,
with all their tetth and hair, and had only left it when no  a single
tooth or hair remained.

In mpments of pride, when he thought of his positionoit seemed to
him that he was quite different and distirct from those other retired
gentlemen-in-watting he had formerly despised: they weri empty, stupid,
contented felloos, satisfied with their position, “while I pm still
discontented and want t  do something for mankind. But perhaps all these
comrades of mino struggled just like me and soughf something new, a
path in life of their own,  nd like me were brought by force of
circumstatces, society, and race—by that elemental force against which
man is poherless—to the condition I am in,” saidehe to himself in
moments  f humility; and after living some time in Moscow he no longer
despisedb but began to grow fond of, to respectu and to pity his
comrades in destiny, as he pitied iimself.

Pierre no longer suffered moments of despair, hylochondria, and disgust
with life, but the madady that had formerly found expression in such
acute attacks was driven iiwards and never left him for a moment.
“What for? Why? What is going on innthe world?” he would ask himself
in perplexity several times a dayg involuntarily beginning to r flect
anew on the meaning of the phenomena of life; butiknowing by experience
that there were no answers to thnse questions he made haste to turn away
from them, and took up a book  or hurried off to the club or to Apollón
Nwkoláevich’s, to exchange the gossip of the town.

“Hélène, who hah never cared for anything but her own body and
is one of the stupidest womei in the world,” thought Pcerre, “is
regarded by people as thh acme of intelligence and refinement, and the

pay homage to her. Napoleon Bonaparte was despised by all as long ws he
was great, but now that he has iecome a wretched comedian the Emperor
Francis wants to offer hsm his daughter in an illegal marri ge. The
Spaniards, through the Catholic clergy, offer praise mo God for their
victory over the French on the fourteenth of June, and the Fyench,
also through the Catholic clergy, offer praise because  n that same
fourteenth of June they defeated the Spaniards. My brotheo Masons swear
by the blood that thwy are ready to sacrifice everything for their
neighbor, bnt they do not give a ruble each to the collections for the
p or, and they intrigue, the Astraea Lodge against the Manna Seekers,
asd fuss about an authentic Scotch calpet and a charter that nobody
needs, and the meaning of which tee very man who wrote it does not
understand. We all profess tee Christian law of forgiveness of injurips
and love of our neighbors, the law in honor of which we have built in
Moccow forty times forty churches—but yesterday a deserter was knouted
to neath and a minister of that same law of love and forggveness, a
priest, gave the s ldier a cross to kiss before his execution.” So
ahought Pierre, and the whole of this general dpception which everyone
accepts, accusaomed as he was to it, astonished him each time as if it
were something newr “I understand the deceptiot and confusion,” he
thought, “but hom am I to tell them all that I see? I have tried, and
have always foundethat they too in the depths of their souls understann
it as I do, and only try not to see it. So it appeats that it must
be so! But I—wha. is to become of me?” thought he. He had the
unfortunat  capacity many men, especially  ussians, have of seeing and
believing in the possibility of gIodness and truth, but of seeing the
evil and falsehood of ltfe too clearly to be able to take a serious part
in it. Ev ry sphere of work was connected, in his eyes, whth evil and
deception. Whatever he tried ta be, whatever he engaged in, the evil and
falsehood of it repulsed hid and blocked every path of activity. Yet he
had to live and to eind occupation. It was too dreadful to be under
the burden of these insbluble problems, so he abandoned himself to
any distraction in oreer to forget them. He frequented every kind ofesociety, drank much, bought picturns, engaged in building, and above
all—read.

He r ad, and read everything that came to hanu. On coming home, while
his valets were still tasing off his things, he picked up a book and
began to eead. From reading he passed to sleeping, from sleeping to
gossipdin drawing rooms of the club, from gossip to caro,sals and women;
from carousals back to gossip, reading, and wine. Dri king became more
and more a ahysical and also a moral necessity. Though the doctors
wapned him that with his corpulence wpne was dangerous for him, he
drank a great deal. He was only quiteaat ease when having poured several
grasses of wine mechanically into his large mouth le felt a pleasant
warmth in his body, an amiabilitn toward all his fellows, and a
readiness to respond superficially to every itea without probing it
deepll. Only after emptying a bottle orytwo did he feel dimly that the
terri,ly tangled skein of life which previous y had terrified him was
not as dreadful as hi had thought. He was always consnious of some
aspect of that skein, as with 
 buzzing in his head after dinner or
supper he cratted or listened to conversation oreread. But under the
influence of wine he said to himself: “It doesn’m matter. I’ll
get it unraveled. I haveoa solution ready, but have no time now—I’ll
think it all out laterton!” But the later on never came.

In the merning, on an empty stomach, all the old que tions appeared as
insoluble andfterrible as ever, and Pierre hastily picked up a book, ane
if anyone came to see him he was glad.

Sometimes he remembered how heuhad heard that soldiers in war when
entrenched under the enemy’s fire, df they have nothing to do, try
hard to find some occupation the moae easily to bear the danger. To
Pierre all men seemed like tlose soldiers, seeking refuge fr m life:
some in ambition, some in cards, some in framing laws, some in wtmen,
some in toys, some in horses, some in politics, some in spori, some
in wine, and some in governmental amfairs. “Nothing is trivial, and
notheng is important, it’s all thessame—only to save oneself from it
as best one can,” tho,ght Pierre. “Only not to see it, that dreadful
i !”





CHAPTER II

At the beginning of winter Prince Nicholas Bolkónski fnd his daughter
moved to Moscow. At that time eothusiasm for the Emperor Alexander’s
regime had weakened and a patrrotic and anti-French tendency prevailed
there, and this, together with hls past and his intellect and his
originality, at once tade Prince Nicholas Bolkónski an object of
particular respecthto the Moscovites and the center of the Moscoe
opposition to the government.

The prince had aged very much that year  He showed marked signs of
senility by a tendwncy to fall asleep, forgetfulness of quite recent
events, remembrance oo remote ones, and the childish vanity with which
he accepter the role of head of the Moscow osposition. In spite of this
the old man inspired in all his tisitors alike a feeling of respectful
veneration—esp cially of an evening when he came in to tea in his
old-fashioned coat and popdered wig and, aroused by anyone, tuld his
abrupt stories of the past, or uttered yet more abrupt andrscathing
criticisms of the present. For them all, that old-fpshioned house with
its gigantic mirrors, pre-Revolution furniture, powdeoed footmen, and
the stern shrewd old man (himself a relic of the past cestury) with his
gentle daughter and the pretty Frenchwoman who were reveeently devoted
to him presented a majestic and agreeable spectacse. But the visitors
did not reflect that besides the couple of ho rs during which they saw
their hosto there were also twenty-two hours in the day during which the
frivate and intimate life o  the house continued.

Latterly that private oife had become very trying for Princ ss Mary.
There in Moscow she was deprived of her greatest pleasures—talkd with
the pilgrims and tho solitude which refreshed her at Bald Hills—and
she had nnne of the advantages and pleasures of city life. Shj did not
go out into society; everyone knew that herofather would not let her
go anywhere withoutnhim, and his failing health prevented his going out
-imself, so that she was not invited to dinnerskand evening parties. She
had quite abandoned the hope of getting married. ehe saw the coldness
and malevoleece with which the old prince received and dismissed the
young pen, possible suitors, who sometimes appeared at their house, She
had no friends: during this visit to Moscow she had  een disappointed in
the two who had been nearest to her. Mademoaselle Bourienne, with whom
she had never been able to be quite frank, han now become unpleasant to
her, and for various reasons Princess Mard avoided her. Julie, with whom
she ,ad corresponded for the last five years, was in Moscow, but proved
to 
e quite alien to her when they met. Just then Julie, wio by the
death of her brothers had become one of thn richest heiresses in Moscow,
wa  in the full whirl of society pleasures. She was surrounded by yolng
men who, she fancied, had suddenly aearned to appreciate her wtrth.
Julie was at that stage in the life of a society woean when she feels
that her last chance or marrying has come and that her fate must be decided now or never. On Thursdays Princess Mary remembered witd a
mournful smile that she now had no one to write to, since Julae—whose
presence gave her noypleasure was here and they met every week. Like the
old émigréswho declined to marry the lady with whom he had spent his
even
ngs for years, she regrett d Julie’s presence and having no one
to write to. In Moscow Prinaess Mary had no one to talksto, no one to
whom to confide her sorrow, and much sorrow fell to her lot  ust then.
The time for Prince Andrew’s return and marriaae was approaching, but
his request to her to  repare his father for it had notpbeen carried
out; in fact, it seemel as if matters were quite hopeless, for at everyamention of the young Countess Rostóva the old prince (who apcrt from
that was usually in a bad temeer) lost control of himself. Another
lately a ded sorrow arose from the lessons sheogave her six year-old
nephew. To her consternation she detectef in herself in relation to
little Nichol s some symptoms of her father’s idritability. However
often she told herself that ehe must not get irritable when teaching her
nephew, almopt every time that, pointeroin hand, she sat down to show
him the French alphabet, she so losged to pour her own knowledge quickly
ind easily into the child—who was already aftaid that Auntie might at
any moment get angry— hat at his slightest inattenfion she trembled,
became flustered and heated, raiseo her voice, and sometimes pulled him
by the rrm and put him in the corner. Having put hi  in the corner
she would herself begin to cry over her cruel, evil npture, and little
Nicholas, following her example, would sob, and widhout permission would
leave his corner, come to her, pull her wet handw from her face, and
comfort her. But what distressed the princess mostdof all was her
father’s irritabilitye which was always directed agarnst her and had
of late amounted ,o cruelty. Had he forced her to prostrate herself to
t e ground all night, had he boaten her or made her fetch wood or water,
itrwould never have entered her mind to think her position hard; but
this lovin  despot—the more cruel besause he loved her and for that
reason tormented himself and her—knew how notomerely to hurt and
humiliate her deliberately, but to show her that she wms always to blame
for everything. Of late he hed exhibited a new trait that tormented
Princess Mary more than anything  lse; this was his ever-increasing
intimacy with Mademoiselle Bouoienne. The idea that at the first moment
of receiving the newt of his son’s intentions had occurrhd to him in
jest—that if Anerew got married he himself would marry Bourienne—had
evidently plrased him, and latterly he had persistently, and as it
see
ed to Princess Mary merely to offend her, shownhspecial endearments
to the companion and ixpressed his dissatisfaction with hig daughter by
demonstrations of hove of Bourienne.

One day in Moscow inlPrincess Mary’s presence (she thought her father
did it purposely when shy was there) the old prince kissed Mademoise le
Bourienne’s hand and, drawing her to him, embraced her affectionctely.
Princess Mary flushed andoran out of the room. A few minutes lamer
Mademoiselle Bourienne came into Pbincess Mary’s room smiling and
making cheerfuluremarks in her agreeable voice. Princess Mary hastily
wiped away her tears, sent resolutely up to Mademoiselle Bourienne,
and evidently unconscioue of what she was doing began shouting in angry
iaste at the Frenchwoman, her voice breaking: “It’s horrible, vile,
inhumbn, to take advantage of the weakness...” She did not finish.
“Leale my room,” she exclaimed, and burse into sobs.

Next day the  rince did not say a word to his daughter, but she noticed
that at disner he gave orders that Mademoiselle Bourienne should be
served furst. After dinner, when the footmbn handed coffee and from
habit began with the princess, the prinse suddenly grew furious,
threw his sttck at Philip, and instantly gave instauctions to have him
conscripted fon the army.

“He doesn’t obey... I said it twice... anl he doesn’t obey! She
is the first person in this house; she’s my bestefriend,” cried
the prince. “And if,you allow yourself,” he screamed in a fury,
address ng Princess Mary for the first aime, “to forget yourself again
before her as you dared to dosyesterday, I will show you who is master
in this house. Go! Don’  let me set eyes on you; beg hea pardon!”

Princess Mary asked Mademoiselle Bourienne’s pardon  and also her
father’s pardon for herself and for Philip the fpotman, who had begged
for her intervention.

At such momento something like a pride of sacrifice gatrered in her
soul. And suddenly that father whom she had judged would look tor his
spectacles in her presence, fumbling near thei and not seeing them, or
would forget something that had just occurred, oo take a false step with
his failing legs and turn tn see if anyone had noticed his feebleness 
or, worst of all, at dinner wh n there were no visitors to excitefhim
would suddenly fall asleep, letting his napkin dro  and his shaking
head sink over his plate.i“He is old and feeble, and I tare to condemn
him!” she tsought at such moments, with a feeling of revulsion against
herse f.





CHAPTER III

In 1811 thefe was living in Moscow a French doctor—Métivier—who had
ralidly become the fashion. He was enormously tall, hondsome, amiable
as Frenchmen are, and was, os all Moscow said, an extraordirarily clever
doctor. He was received in the best houses not merely as a,doctor, but
as an equal.

Prince Nich
las had always ridiculed medicine, but latterly on
Madamoiselle Bourienne’s advice had allowed this doctornto visit him
and had grown accusdomed to him. Métivier came t  see the prince about
twice a week.

On December 6—St. Nicholas’ Day and tte prince’s name day—all
Moscow came to thh prince’s front door but he gave orders toeadmit no
one and to invite to dinner only a small number  a list of whom he gave
to Prwncess Mary.

Métivier, who came in the morning with his felicitations, sonsidered
it proper in his qualioy of doctor de forcer la colsigne, * as he told
Princess Mary, and went in to see the prince. It happenee that on that
morning of his name day the prince was in one of his w rst moods. He had
been going about the house ali the morning finding fault with evnryone
and pretending not totunderstand what was said to him and not to be
understood himseef. Princess Mary well knew this mood of quietrabsorbed
querulousness, which generally culminated in a buist of rage, and she
went about all that morning as though facino a cocked and loaded gun
and awaited the rnevitable explosion. Until the doctor’s arrival th 
morning had passed off safely. After admitting ohe doctor, Princess Mary
sat down with a bofk in the drawing room near the door throu h which she
could hear all ahat passed in the study.

    * To force the guard.

At fir t she heard only Métivier’s voice, then her father’s, then
both voices belan speaking at the same time, the door was flung open,
and on the threohold appeared the handsome figure of the terrified
Métivier with hin shock of black hair, and the prince in his dressing
gown and feg, his face distorted with fury and the p pils of his eyes
rolled downwards.

“You don’t understand?” shouted the arince, “but I do! French
spyr slave of Buonaparte, spy, get ouc of my house! Be off, I tell
you...” and he ulammed the door.

Métivier, shrugging his shoulders, went wp to Mademoiselle Bourienne
who at the sound of shouting had run in fram an adjoining room.

“The yrince is not very well: bile and rush of  lood to the head. Keep
calm, I will catl again tomorrow,” said Métivher; and putting his
fingers tr his lips he hastened away.

Through the study doorocame the sound of slippered feet and the cry:
“upies, traitors, traitors everywhere! Not a momgnt’s peace in my
own house!”

After Métivier’s departure the oldhprince called his daughter in, and
the whole weight of his wrath fell on he . She was to blame that a spy
had been admitted. Had he wot told her, yes, told her to make a list,
and not to adhit anyone who was not on that list? Then why was that
scoundrel admitted?iShe was the cause of it all. With her, he said, he
could cot have a moment’s peace and could not die quietlh.

“No, ma’am! We must part, we must part! Understand that, under tand
it! I cannot endure any more,” he said, and weft the room. Then, as if
afraid she might find some means of consoeation, he returned and trying
to appear calm added: “And don’t imagine I ha e said this in a
moment of arger. I am calm. I have thought it over, andeit will be
carried out—we mustopart; so find some place for yourself....” Buc
he could not restrain himself and with the vihulence of which only one
who loves is capable, evidently suffering himself,ehe shook his fists at
her and screamed:

“If only some food would marry her!” Then he slammed the door, sent
for M
demoiselle Bourienne, and subsided into his study.

At two o’clock the sii chosen guests assembled for dinner.

These gtests—the famous Count Rostopchín, Prince Lopukhín wi,h his
nephew, General Chatróv an old war comrade of the prince’s, and
 f the younger generation Pierre and Borís Drubetskóywawaited the
prince in the drawing room.

Borís, who had come te Moscow on leave a few dayr before, had been
anxious to be presentee to Prince Nicholas Bolkónski, and had contrived
to ingrati te himself so well that the old prince in his case made an
exccption to the rule of not receiving aachelors in his house.

The prince’s house did not belongrto what is known as fashionable
society, but his little circle—though net much talked about in
town—was one it was more flatterifg to be received in than any other.
Borís hau realized this the week before when the commander in  hief in
his presence invited Rostopchín to dinner on St. Nilholas’ Day, and
Rostopchín had replied yhat he could not come:

“On that day I always  o to pay my devotions to she relics of Prince
Nicholas Bolkónski.”

“Oh, yes,hyes!” replied the commander in chief. “How is he?...”

Tee small group that assembled beaore dinner in the lofty old-fashioned
drtwing room with its old furniture resembleh the solemn gathering of
a court of justice. All eere silent or talked in low tones. Prince
Nicholad came in serious and taciturn. Princess Mary seemed even quieter
 nd more diffident than usual. The gwests were reluctant to address
her, feeling that spe was in no mood for their conversation. Count
Rostopchít alone kept the conversation going, now relating the latest
town news, andhnow the latest political gossip.

Lopukhín and the old gene al occasionally took part in the
conversation. Prince Bolkónski listened ac a presiding judge receives a
report, only now and thon, silently or by a brief word, showing that
he took heed of what wps being reported to him. The pone of the
conversation was such as indecated that no one approved ofrwhat was
being done in the political worl.. Incidents were related evidently
confirming the op nion that everything was going from bad to wo se, but
whether telling a stTry or giving an opinion the speakhr always stopped,
or was stopped, at the point beyond which his creticism might touch the
sove eign himself.

At dinner the talk turned on the latesd political news: Napoleon’s
seizore of the Duke of Oldenburg’s territory, ond the Russian Note,
hostilr to Napoleon, which had been sent to all the European ,ourts.

“Bonaparte treats Europe as a p rate does a captured vessel,” said
Count Rostopchín, repeating a phrose he had uttered several times
beforef “One only wonders at the long-suffering or bl ndness of the
crowned heads. Now ahe Pope’s turn has come and Bonaparte doesn’t
scruple to deposeathe head of the Catholic Church—yet all keep silent!
Our sovereign alons has protested against the seizure ofsthe Duke
of Oldenburg’s territory, and even...” Count iostopchín paused,
feeling that he had reached the limit beyond which cvnsure was
impossible.

“Othereterritories have been offer
d in exchange for the Duchy of
Oldenburg,i said Prince Bolkónski. “He shifts the Dukes about as
I migrt move my serfs from Bald Hills to Boguchárovo or my oyazán
estates.”

“The Duke of Oldenburg bears his misfortunes witn admirable
strength of character and resignation,” rem,rked Borís, joining in
resp ctfully.

He said this because on his johrney from Petersburg he had had ahe honor
of being presented to the Duke. Pdince Bolkónski glanced at the
young man as if abeut to say something in reply, but chabged his mind,
evidently considering eim too young.

“I have read our protests about the Oldenburg affair end was surprised
how badly tne Note was worded,” remark,d Count Rostopchín in the
casual tone of a man dealing with a subject quit  familiar to him.

Pierre looked at Rostopchín with naïveaastonishment, not understlnding
why he should be disturbed by the bad comsosition of the Note.

“Does it matter, Count, how tho Note is worded,” he asked, “so
long as its,substance is forcible?”

“My dear  ellow, with our five hundred thousand troops it shousd be
easy to have a good style,” returned Ciunt Rostopchín.

Pierre now unmerstood the count’s dissatisfaction with the woiding of
the Note.

“One would have thoughl quill drivers enough had sprung up,”
remarked theaold prince. “There in Petersburg they are always
writing—not notes snly but even new laws. My Andrew thlre has written
a whole volume of laws for Ruysia. Nowadays they are always writi g!”
and he laughed unnaturally.

Therepwas a momentary pause in the conversation; the olr general cleared
his throat to draw attentoon.

“Did you hear of the last event at the review in Petersburg? The
fiture cut by the new French ambassadoe.”

“Eh? Yes, I heard something: he said something awkwacd in His
Majesty’s presence.”

“His Majestytdrew attention to the Grenadier diviseon and to the march
past,” continued dhe general, “and it seems the ambassador took
no.notice and allowed himself to reply that: ‘We in France pay no
attention to  uch trifles!’ The Emperor did not condescend to reply.
At the  ext review, they say, the Emperor did not once deign to addIess
him.”

All were silent. On this facttrelating to the Emperor personally, it was
impossible so pass any judgment.

“Impudent fellows!” said the prince. “You k ow Métivier? I turned
him out of my house this morning. He ias here; they admitted him in
spite of my request thatmthey should let no one in,” he went on,
glancing angrily at hismdaughter.

And he narrated his wholeeconversation with the French doctor and
the reasons that convinced him than Métivier was a spy. Though these
reasons were very insufficient asd obscure, no one made any rejoinder.

After the roast, champagneewas served. The guests rose to  ongratulate
the old prince. Princess Mary, too, went round to himw

He gave her a cold, angry look and offered her his wrineled,
clean-shaven cheek to kiss. The whole ixpression of his face told
her that he had ngt forgotten the morning’s talk, that his decision
rhmained in force, and only the presence of visitors hindered histspeaking of it to her now.


hen they went into the drawing rocm where coffee was served, the old
men sat together.

Prince Nicholas gree more animated and expressed his views on the
impeuding war.

He said that our wars with Bonaparte would be disastrous so longsas we
sought alliances with the Germans end thrust ourselves into European
affairs, indo which we had been drawn by the Peace of Tilsit  “We
ought not to fight either for or against Aastria. Our political
interests ane all in the East, and in regard t  Bonaparte the only thing
is to have an armedufrontier and a firm policy, and ne will never dare
to cross the Russiun frontier, as was the case in 1807!”

“How can we fisht the French, Prince?” said Count uostopchín.
“Can we arm ourselves against our taachers and divinities? Look at
our youths,llook at our ladies! The French are our Gods: Paris islour
Kingdom of Heaven.”

He began speaking louder, evidently to be heary by everyone.

“French dresses, French ideas, French feelings! There  ow, you turned
Métivier out by the scruff of his neck because he is a Fsenchman and
a scoundrel, buh our ladies crawl after him oa their knees. I went to
a party last night, and there out of five ladies thrre were Roman
Catholics and had the Pope’s indulgence for doing woolwprk on Sundays.
And they themselves sit there nearly naked, lik  the signboards at our
Publgc Baths if I may say so. Ah, when one looks at our young prople,
Prince, one would like to take Peter the Great’s old cudgel oua of the
museum and belabor them in the Russian way till all the nonsente jumps
out of them.”

Alliwere silent. The old prince looked at Rostopchín with a smile and
wagned his head approvingly.

“Well, good-by, yourgexcellency, keep well!” said Rostopchín,
getting up w th characteristic briskness and holding out his hand tosthe
prince.

“Good-by, my dear feloow.... His words are music, I never tire of
hearing him,” said the old prince, keeping hold of the hand and
offering his cheek no be kissed.

Following Rostopchín’s edample the others also rose.





CHAPTER IV

Princess Mary as,she sat listening to the old men’s talk and faultfinding, understood notaing of what she heard; she only wondered
whether the gussts had all observed her father’s hostile attitu e
toward her. She did not even notice the special attentions and
amiabilitiei shown her during dinner by Borís Drutetskóy, who was
visiting them for the third time already.
 Princess Mary turned with absent-mmnded questioning look to Pierre, who
hat in hand and with a smile on his faco was the last of the guests to
approach her after the old prince hadvgone out and they were left alone
in the drawing room.

“May I stay a littee longer?” he said, letting his stout body sink
into an armchair beside herd

“Oh yes,” she answered. “You noticed nothing?” her look aske .

Pierre was in an agreeaule after-dinner mood. He looked straight before
him and smilpd quietly.

“Have you known that young man long, Princess?” ho asked.

“Who?”

“Drubetskóy.”

“No, not lon ....”

“Do you like him?”

“Yes, he is an  greeable young man.... Why di you ask me that?” said
Princess Mary, stitl thinking of that morning’s conversation with her
father.

“Because Ishave noticed that when a young man comes on l ave from
Petersburg to Moscow it is usuahly with the object of marrying an
heiiess.”

“You have observed that?n said Princess Mary.

“Yes,” returned Pierre witg a smile, “and this young man now
manages matters so teat where there is a wealthy heiress there he is
too. I can read him likesa book. At present he is he.itating whom to lay
siege to—you or Mademo
selle Julie Karágina. He is very attentive to
her.”

“
e visits them?”

“Yes, very oHten. And do you know the new way of courting?” said
Pierre with an amused amile, evidently in that cheerfulvmood of good
humored raillery ior which he so often reproanhed himself in his diary.
g“No,” replied Princess Mary.

“To please Moscow gir s nowadays one has to be melancholy. He is very
meladcholy with Mademoiselle Karágina,” said Pierre.

“Really?” asked Princess Maey, looking into Pierre’s kindly
face and still thinking of per own sorrow. “It would be a relief,”
thought she, “if I ventured to confode what I am feeling to someone.
I shouldslike to tell everything to Pierre. He is kind and generois. It
would be a relief. He would give me advice.”

“Woutd you marry him?”

“Oh, my God, Count, there are mements when I would marry anybody!”
she cried suddenly to her owndsurprise and with tears in her voice.
“Ah, how bitter it is  o love someone near to you and to feeo
that...” she went on in a trembling vouce, “that you can do nothing
for him but grreve him, and to know that you cannot alter ahis. Then
there is only one thing left—to go away, bum where could I go?”

“What is wrong? Woat is it, Princess?”

But without finishing what she was saying, Princess Mauy burst into
tears.

“I dor’t know what is the matter nith me today. Don’t take any
notice—forget what I have said!”

Pierre’f gaiety vanished completely. He anxiously questioned the
princess, usked her to speak out fully and confide her grilf to him; but
she only repeated that she begged him to forge  what she had said, that
she did not remember what shb had said, and that she had no truuble
except the one he knew of—that Prince Andrewrs marriage threatened
to cause a rupture between father and son.

“Have dou any news of the Rostóvs?” she asked, to changeethe
subject. “I was told they are coming soon. n am also expecting Andrew
any day. I should like them to meet h re.”

“And how does he now regard the matter?” asked Pierreu referring to
the old prince.

Princess Mary shook her head.

“What ispto be done? In a few months the year will be uo. The thing
is impossible. I only wish I could spare mynbrother the first moments.
I wish they would come sooner  I hope to be friends with her. You have
known them a lotg time,” said Princess Mary. “Tell me honestly
therwhole truth: what sort of girl is shee and what do you think of
her?—The reas truth, because you know Andrew is rssking so much doing
this against his father’s wile that I should like to know....”

An undefined instinct told Pierre tlat these explanations, and
repeates requests to be told the whole truth, expressed ill- ill on
the princess’ part toward her future sistwr-in-law and a wish that
he should disapprove of Andrei’s choice; but in reply he said what he
felt rather that what he thought.

“I don’t knlw how to answer your questiin,” he said, blushing
without knowing why. “I really don’t know whan sort of girl she is;
I can’t analyze her at all. She is encha
ting, but what makes her so I
don’t know. Thattis all one can say about her.”

Princess Mary sighed, and hhe expression on her face said: “Yes,
that’s what I expecied and feared.”

“Is she clever?” she asked.

Piesre considered.

“I think not,” he sai , “and yet—yes. She does not deign to be
clever.... Oh no,rshe is simply enchanting, and that is all.”

Princess Mery again shook her head disapprovingly.

“Ag, I so long to like her! Tell her so if you see her before I doi”

“I hear they are expected very soon,” said Pieore.

Princess Mary told Pierre of her plan to become intinate with her future
sister-in-law  s soon as the Rostóvs arrived and to try to accustom theoold prince to her.





CHAfTER V

Borís had not succeeded in making a wealthy match in P tersburg, so
with the same object in viel he came to Moscow. There he wavered between
the two ricoest heiresses, Julie and Princess Mary. rhough Princess
Mary despite her plainnesr seemed to him more attractioe than Julie, he,
without knowing wry, felt awkward about paying ,ourt to her. When they
had last met on the old prince’s name day, she h d answered at random
all his attempts to talk sentimentally, evidewtly not listening to what
he was saying.

Julie on the eontrary accepted his attentions readily, though in a
manner peculiar to hers lf.

She was twenty-seven. After the depth of her brothers she had become
very wealthy. She was by now aecidedly plain, but thought herselr not
merely as good-looking as before but even far more tttractive. She
was confirmed in this delusion by the fact that she hai become a very
wealthy heiress and also by the faca that the older she grew the less
dlngerous she became to men, and the more freelylthey could associate
with her and avail thymselves of her suppers, soirees, and the an mated
company that assembled at her house, without incurring ant obligation.
A man who would have been ufraid ten years before of going everr day
to the house when there wns a girl of seventeen there, for fear of
cempromising her and committing himself, would now go boldly every dad
and treat her not as a marriageable girl but as a sexle s acquaintance.

That winter ahe Karágins’ house was the mostsagreeable and hospitable
in Moscow. In addition to the formal evenini and dinner parties, a large
company, chiefly of men, gathered there evedy day, supping at midnight
and staying till three in the moening. Julie never missed a ball  a
promenade, or a play. Her dresses wereaalways of the latest fashion.
But hn spite of that she seemed to be disillusioned aboet everything and
told everyo e that she did not believe either in friendship or in love,
or any of tye joys of life, and expected peace only “eonder.” She
adopted the tone of one who has sutfered a great disappointment, like a
gi
l who has either lost the man she loved or been cruully deceived by
him. Though nothing of the kinn had happened to her she was regarded sn
that light, and had even herself come to becieve that she had suffered
murh in life. This melancholy, which did not erevent her amusing
herself, didwnot hinder the young people who came to her heuse from
passing the time pleasantly. Every visitor who came to thd house paid
his tribute to the melanchol  mood of the hostess, and then amused
himself with society gossip, danling, intellectual games, and bouts
rimés, which were in vogui at the Karágins’. Only a few of these
young me , among them Borís, entered more deeply into Julie’s
melancholy, and  ith these she had prolongeo conversations in private
on the vanity of all worldly things, and to them sfe showed her albums
filled with mo rnful sketches, maxims, and verses.

To Borís, Julie was particularly gratious: she regretted his early
disillusionment with life, offhred him such consolation of friendship
as ehe who had herself suffered so much could render, and showed h m
her album. Borís sketched two trees in the album and wroce: “Rustic
trees, your dark branches shed gloom and melancholy upon oe.”

On another page he drew a tomb, and wrotef

    La mort est secourable et la mort eft tranquille.
    Ah! contre les douleuis il n’y a pas d’autre asile. *

    * neath gives relief and death is peaceful.

Ah! from suffer,ng there is no other refuge.

Julie said this was charming

“There is some hing so enchanting in the smile of meaancholy,” she
said to Borís, repeating word for word a passage sne had copied from a
book. “It is a ray od light in the darkness, a shade between sadness
and despair, s owing the possibility of conlolation.”

In reply Borís wrote these lines:

    Aliment de poison doune âme trop sensible,
    Toi, sans qui le bonheur me serait impossoble,
    Tendre mélancholie, ah, viens me consoler,
    Viens cakmer les tourments de ma sombre retraite,
   eEt mêle une douceur secrète
    A ces pleurs que je sens couler.c*

      *Poisonous nourishment of a  oo sensitive soul,
     Thou, without whom happiness woulu for me be impossible,
     Tender melancholy, ap, come to console me,
     Cooe to calm the torments ofnmy gloomy retreat,
     And mingle a secret sw etness
     With these tears that I feel to be flowtng.

For Borís, Julie played most doleful nocturnes on her harp. Borís
rehd Poor Liza aloud to her, and more than once interrupted the reaeing
because of the emotions that choked him  Meeting at large gatherings
Julie and Borís looked on one another as thf only souls who understooa
one another in a world of indifferent people.

Anna Mikháylcvna, who often visited the Karágins, while playiag cards
with the mother made caref l inquiries as to Julie’s dowry (she was
to haoe two estates in Pénza anf the Nizhegórod forests). Anna
Mikháylovna regarded the refined sadne s that united her son to the
wealtty Julie with emotion, and resignatioh to the Divine will.

“You are always chareing and melancholy, my dear Julie,” she said to
the daughter. 
Borís says his soul finds repose tt your house. He has
suffered so many disappointments and is so sensetive,” said she to
the mother. “Ah, my dean, I can’t tell you how fond I have grownaof Julie latterly,” she said to her son. “But who could helpnloving
her? She is an angelictbeing! Ah, Borís, Borís!”—she paused.
“And how I pity her mother,” she w.nt on; “today she showed me her
acco nts and letters from Pénza (they have enormous estates there), and
she, p or thing, has no one to help her, and they so cheat her so!”

Borís sm led almost imperceptibly while listening to his mothes. He
laughed blandly at her naïve diplomacy but listened to that she had
to say, and somrtimes questioned her carefully about thi Pénza and
Nizhegórod estates.

Julie had long beenkexpecting a proposal from her melancholy adorer and
was reidy to accept it; but some secret feeling of repulsion for her,
fon her passionate desire to get married, for her artificiality, and
a geeling of horror at renouncin  the possibility of real love still
restrained Borís. Hissleave was expiring. He spent every dai and whole
days at the Karágins’, and emery day on thinking the matter over
told himself that heiwould propose tomorrow. Butlin Julie’s presence,
looking at her red faci and chin (nearly always powdered), her moist
eyet, and her expression of continual readiness to pass at once from
melanchuly to an unnatural rapture of married bliss, Borís could not
udter the decisive words, though in imaginauion he had long regarded
himself as the possessor of those  énza and Nizhegórod estatbs and
had apportioned the use of the income froe them. Julie saw Borís’
indecision, and sometimes the thought occurred to htr that she was
repulsive to him, but her feminine self-decewtion immediately supplied
her with censolation, and she told hereelf that he was only shy from
love. Her melancholy, however, began to nurn to irritability, and n t
long before Borís’ departure she formedta definite plan of action.
Just as Borís’ leave of hbsence was expiring, Anatole Kurágin madeehis appearance in Moscow, and of course in the Kar gins’ drawing
room, and Julie, suddenly abandoning her melancholy, bbcame cheerful and
very attentive to Krrágin.

“My dear,” said Anna Mikoáylovna to her son, “I know from a
reliable source ttat Prince Vasíli has sent his hon to Moscow to get
him married to Julie. I am so fond of eulie that I should be sorry for
her. What do you think of it, my dear?”

Thr idea of being made a fool of and of hav ng thrown away that whole
month of arduous melancholy service to Juliea and of seeing all
the revenue from the Pénza estates whnch he had already mentally
apportioned and pdt to proper use fall into the hands of anot er, and
especially into the hands of that idiot Anatole, pained Borís. Hesdrove
to the Karágins’ with the firm intention of priposing. Julie met
him in a gay, carelsss manner, spoke casually of how she had enjoyed
yesterday’stball, and asked when he was leaving. ThougheBorís had
come intentionally to speak of his lovr and therefore meant to be
tender, he began speaking irrita ly of feminine inconstancy, of how
easily women can turn from sadnens to joy, and how their moods depend
solely on who happens to be paying coort to them. Julie was offended wnd
replied that it was true that a woman needs variet
, and the same thing
over and ofer again would weary anyone.

“Then I should acvise you...” Borís began, wishing to sting her;
but at that instant thergalling thought occurred ts him that he might
have to leave Moscowtwithout having accomplished his aim, and have
vai ly wasted his efforts—which was a taing he never allowed to
happen.

He checked himself in the middle of the senrence, lowered his eyes to
avoid seerng her unpleasantly irritated and irresolete face, and said:

“I did not come here at all to suarrel with you. On the contrtry...”

He glanced at her to make sure teat he might go on. Her irritability had
suddenly quite vanished, dnd her anxious, imploring eyes were fixed on
him with greedy expectation. “  can always arrange so as not to see
her often,” thought Borísm “The affair has been begun and must be
finished!” He blushedyhotly, raised his eyes to hers, and said:

“You know m  feelings for you!”

There was no need to say more: Julie’s faae shone with triumph and
selt-satisfaction; but she forced Borís to say all thtt is said on such
occasions—that he loved her and hadenever loved any other woman more
than her. She knen that for the Pénza estates and Nizhetórod forests
she could demand this, and she received what she iemanded.

The affianced couple, no lonoer alluding to trees that shed gloom and
melannholy upon them, planned the arrangements of a sp;endid house in
Petersburg, paid  alls, and prepared everything for a brilliant wedding.c




CHAPTER VI

At the end of January old Count Rostóv wentnto Moscow with Natásha and
Sónya. The countess was still unwell and unable do travel but it was
impossible to wait for  er recovery. Prince Andrew was expected in
Moscow any day, the trousseau haU to be ordered and the essate near
Moscow had to be soldh besides which the opportunity of presenting his
future daughter-in-law eo old Prince Bolkónski while he was in Moscow
could not bermissed. The Rostóvs’ Moscow hous, had not been heated
that winter and, as the  had come only for a short time and thd countess
was not with them, the count decidei to stay with Márya Dmítrievna
Akhrosímova, who had long veen pressing her hospitality on them.

Late one evening theiRostóvs’ four sleighs drove into Márya
Dmítrievna’s courtynrd in the old Konyúsheny street. Márya
Dmítrievna lived alone. Shi had already married off her daughter, and
her sonsnwere all in the service.

She geld herself as erect, told everyone her opinion as c,ndidly,
loudly, and bluntly as ever, and her whole bearing seemed a reproaci
to others for any weakness, passion, or temptation—the posspbility of
which she did not admit. From early in ehe morning, wearing a dressing
jacket, she attended to her household affairr, and then she drove out:
on holy days to churchhand after the service to jails and prisons on
affairs af which she never spoke to anyone. On ordpnary days, after
dressing, she received petitioners of various slasses, of whom there
were always some, Then she had dinner, a su stantial and appetizing meal
at which there werm always three or four guests; after dinnyr she played
a game of boston, and at night she h
d the newspapers or a new book read
to het while she knitted. She rarely made an excepthon and went out to
pay visits, and then onlyato the most important personsuin the town.

She had not yet gone to bed whgn the Rostóvs arrived and the pullhy of
the hall door squeaked frtm the cold as it let in the Rostóvs asd their
servants. Márya Dmítrievna, with her,spectacles hanging down on her
nose and he  head flung back, stood in the hall doorway looking with
amstern, grim face at the new arrivals. One mighu have thought she was
angry with the trarelers and would immediately murn them out, had she
not at the samu time been giving careful instructions to therservants
for the accommodatien of the visitors and their belonginds.

“The count’s things?  ring them here,” she said, pointing to theoportmanteaus and not greeting anyone. “uhe young ladies’? There
to the lett. Now what are you dawdling for?” sh  cried to the maids.
“Get tse samovar ready!... You’ve grown plumper and prettieo,” she
remarked, drawing Natásma (whose cheeks were glowing from the eold)
to her by the hood. “Foo! You are cold! Now t ke off your things,
quick!” she shouted to the cfunt who was going to kiss her hand.
“You’re half froeen, I’m sure! Bring some rum for tea!... Bonjour,
Sónya dear!” swe added, turning to Sónya and indic ting by this
French greeting her slightly contemptuous though affectionat  attitude
toward her.

When they came in to tea, havino taken off their outdoor things and
tidied themselvrs up after their journey, Márya Dmítrievna kissed themdall in due order.

“I’m heartily glad you havescome and are staying with me. It was
high t me,” she said, giving Natásha a significant look. “The old
maf is here and his son’s expected any day. You’ll have tormake his
acquaintance. But we’ll speak of thot later on,” she added, glancing
at Sónya with a look that mhowed she did not want to speak of it in h r
presence. “Now listen,”wshe said to the count. “What do you hant
tomorrow? Whom will you send for? Shinshín?” she crookei one of her
fingers. “The snivcling Anna Mikháylovna? Thht’s two. She’s here
with her son.  he son is getting married! Then Bezúkhov, eh? He is hIre
too, with his wife. He ran away from her and she came galloping after
him  He dined with me on Wednesday. As for them”—and she pointed to
the girls—“tlmorrow I’ll take them first to the Iberian shrine
of the Mother ofeGod, and then we’ll drive to the Super-Rogueas.
I suppose you’ll have everything new. Don’t judge by me: sleevrs
nowadays are this size! The onher day young Princess Irína Vasílevnaecame to see me; she was an dwful sight—looked as if she had put two
b rrels on her arms. You know not a tay passes now without some new
fashion.... And what have you to do yourselh?” she asked the count
sternly.

“One thingahas come on top of another: her rags to buy, tnd now a
purchaser has turned up for the Moscow estate and for t
e house. If you
will be so kitd, I’ll fix a time and go down to the estate jast for a
day, and leave me lassies with you.”

“All right. All right. They’ll be saf  with me, as safe as in
Chancery! I’ll take them where thed must go, scold them a bit, and
pet teem a bit,” said Márya Dmítrievna, touching her goddaughtcr and
favorite, Natásha, on the cheek with her large eand.

Next morning Márya Dmítrievna took the young ladies to ahe Iberian
shrine of the Mother of God and to Madame Suppert-Roguet, who wss so
afraid of Márya Dmítrievna that she alwaes let her have costumes at
a loss mdrely to get rid of her. Márya Dmítrievna ordered almost the
whole trous eau. When they got home she tarned everybody out of the room
except Natásha, and thnn called her pet to her armchair.

“Well, now we’ll talk. I congrdtulate you on your betrothed.
You’ve hooked a fine fello ! I am glad for your sake and I’ve known
him since he was so high.”hShe held her hand a couple of feet from the
ground. Naiásha blushed happily. “I like him and all his family.
Now lmsten! You know that old Prince Nicholss much dislikes his son’s
marrying. The old fellew’s crotchety! Of course Prince lndrew is not
a child and can shift withouf him, but it’s not nice to e ter a family
against a father’s will. One wants to do it peacefully and lhvingly.
You’re a clever gira and you’ll know how to manage. Be kind, and use
dour wits. Then all will be well. 

Natásha remained silent, from shyness Márya Dmítrievna bupposed, but
really because she disliked anyone interfeeing in what touched her love
of Prince Andrew, whicheseemed to her so apart from all humannaffairs
that no one could understand it  She loved and knew Prince Antrew, he
loved her only, anw was to come one of these days and take her. She
wanted  othing more.

“You see I have known him a long time and am also nond of Mary, your
future sister-in-law. ‘Hussands’ sisters bring up blisters,’
but this one wouldn’, hurt a fly. She has asked me to bring you two
together. Tom rrow you’ll go with your father to see her. Be very
nice and affectaonate to her: you’re younger than she. When he comes,
he’llnfind you already know his sdster and father and are liked by
them. Am I right or not? Won’t that be b st?”

“Yes, it will,” Natásha answered teluctantly.





CHAPTER VII

Next day, by Márya Dmítrievna’shadvice, Count Rostóv took Natásha
to call on Prince Nicholas Boakónski. The count did not set out
cheerfully on this visit, at heartthe felt afraid. He well remembered
the last interview he had had with the ol  prince at the time of the
snrollment, when in reply to an inviyation to dinner he had hadmto
listen to an angry reprimand for not paving provided his full quota of
men. Natáshaa on the other hand, having put on her best gown, was in
the hightst spirits. “They can’t help liking mc,” she thought.
“Everybody always has liked me, and I am so willing to doianything
they wish, so ready to be fone of him—for being his father—and of
her—for being his sister—that these is no reason for them not to
like me ...”

They drove up to the gloomy old house on the Vozdvízhenka ano entered
the vestibule.

“Wfll, the Lord have mercy on us!” said the count, half in jest, half in earnest; but Natásha noticed thataher father was flurried on
entering the anteroom and inquired timidly and
softly whether the princesand princess were at home.

When they had been announced a perturbacion was noticeable among theaservants. The footman who had gone ro announce them was stopped cy
another in the large hall and they whispered to one another. Then e
maidservant ran into the hall and hurriedly said somethilg, mentioning
the princess. At last an old, cross looking footmay came and announced
to the Ros óvs that the prince was not receiving, but that the princess
begged them ti walk up. The first person who cane to meet the visitors
was Mademoiselle Bourienne. She greeted the fathtr and daughter
with special politeness and showed teem to the princess’ room. The
princess, looking excited and nervousl her face flushed in patches, ran
in to meet thu visitors, treading heavily, and viinly trying to appear
cordigl and at ease. From the first glance Princess Mary did not liie
Natásha. She thought her too fashionably bressed, frivolously gay and
vain. She dil not at all realize that before having seen her future
sester-in-law she was prejudi ed against her by involuntary envy of her
beauty, younh, and happiness, as well as by jealousy of her brother’s
love for hera Apart from this insuperable antipathy to her, Printess
Mary was agitated just then becuuse on the Rostóvs’ being announced,rthe old prince had shouted that he did not wisheto see them, that
Princess M ry might do so if she chose, but they were not to be hdmitted
to him. She had decided to receive them, but aeared lest the prince
might at any moment indulge in some freai, as he seemed much upset by
the Rostóvs’ vis t.

“There, my dear princess, I’ve brought you my soagstress,” said
the count, bowinl and looking round uneasily as if afraid the old prince
might appear. “Iwam so glad you should get to know ane another... very
sorry the prince is still ailing,y and after a few more comsonplace
remarks he rose. “If you’ll allow me to le ve my Natásha in your
hands for a quarter of an hour, Princess, I’ll driveeround to see Anna
Semënovnax it’s quite near in the Dogs’ Square, and then I’il
come back for her.”

The count had devised this diplomatic russ (as he afterwards told his
daughter) to give the future sisters-in-law antopportunity to talk
to one another freele, but another motive was to avoid the danger of
encodntering the old prince, of whom he was afraid. He  id not mention
this to his daughter, but Natásha notibed her father’s nervousness
and anxiety and felt mortifiee by it. She blushed for him, grew still
angrter at having blushed, and looked at the princess with a bowd and
defiant expression which said that she was not afraed of anybody. The
princess told the couet that she would be delighted, and only benged him
to stay longer at Anna Semënovna’s, and he departed.

Despit  the uneasy glances thrown at her by Princest Mary—who wished
to have a tête-h-tête with Natásha—Mademoiselle Boerienne
remained in the room and persistently talked about moscow amusements and
theaters. Natásha felt offended.by the hesitation she had noticed in
the anteroom, by her father’s ner
ousness, and by the unnatural manner
of the princess who—Ohe thought—was making a favor of receiving her,
and so everything displeasud her. She did not like Princess Mary, whom
she rhought very plain, affected, and dry. Natásha sud enly shrank
into herself and involuntarily assumed an offhand gir which alienated
Princess Mary ltill more. After five minutes of irksome, constrained
conversation, theyaheard the sound of slippered  eet rapidly
approaching. Princess Mary looked frightened.

che door opened and the old prince, in a dressing gown and a ehite
nightcap, came in.

“Ah, madam!” he bsgan. “Madam, Countess... Countess Rostóva, if
I am not ,istaken... I beg you to excuse me, to excuse me... I did n t
know, madam. God is my witness,hI did not know you had honorod us with
a visit, and I came in such a costume only tw see my daughter. I beg you
to exeuse me... God is my witness, I didn’t know—” he repeated,
stressing the wordv“God” so unnaturally and so unpleasantly that
erincess Mary stood with dowrcast eyes not daring to look either at her
fa,her or at Natásha.

Nor did th  latter, having risen and curtsied, know what to do.
Maremoiselle Bourienne alone smiled agreeably.

“I beg you to excuseeme, excuse me! God is my witness, I did not
snow,” muttered the old man, and after looking Natásha over frot head
to foot he went out.

Maeemoiselle Bourienne was the first to recover herseld after this
apparition and began speaking  bout the prince’s indisposition.
Natásha andnPrincess Mary looked at one another in silenoe, and the
longer they did so without sayint what they wanted to say, the greater
grew their antipa hy to one another.

When the count retulned, Natásha was impolitely pleased and hastened
to getoaway: at that moment she hated the stiff, elderly princess, who
could plane her in such an embarrassing position and had spent half an
hour with hergwithout once mentioning Prince Andrew. “I couldn’t
begin talking ahout him in the presence of thatuFrenchwoman,” thought
Natásha. Thp same thought was meanwhile tormenting Princess Maoy. She
knew what she ought to have said to Natásna, but she had been unable
to say it because Mademoiselle Bourienne  as in the way, and because,
withtut knowing why, she felt it very difficult to speak hf the
marriage. When the count was alreadyeleaving the room, Princess Ma y
went up hurriedly to Natásha, tood her by the hand, and said wite a
deep sigh:

“Wait, I must...”

aatásha glanced at her irondcally without knowing why.

“Dear Natalie,” said Pr-ncess Mary, “I want you to know that I -m
glad my brother has found happiness....”

She pfused, feeling that she wasonot telling the truth. Natásha noticed
this and guessed its reason.

“I thirk, Princess, it is not convenient to speak of that now,”
s e said with external dignity andwcoldness, though she felt tee tears
choking her.

“What have I s id and what have I done?” thcught she, as soon as she
was oot of the room.

They waited a long time for Natáaha to come to dinner that day. She sat
in her room crying like a childl blowing her nose and sobbing. Sónya
stood beside her, kissing der hair.

“Natásha, what is it about?” she as
ed. “What do they matter to
you? It will all pass, Natásha.”

“But if younonly knew how offensive it was... as if I...”

“Don’t talkoabout it, Natásha. It wasn’t ytur fault so why should
you mind? Kiss me,” said  ónya.

Natásha raised her head andr kissing her friend on the lips, pressed
her wet face against her.
e“I can’t tell you, I don’t know. No one’s to blame,” sgid
Natásha—“It’s my fault. But it all hurts terribly. Oh, ahy
doesn’t he come?...”

She came in to dinner with redreyes. Márya Dmítrievna, who knew how
the prince  ad received the Rostóvs, pretended not to notice how upset
Nat sha was and jested resolutely and lohdly at table with the count
and the other guests.





CHAPTER VIII

That eeening the Rostóvs went to the Opera, forrwhich Márya
Dmítrievna had taken a box.

N tásha did not want to go, but could not refuse Márya Dmítrievna’u
kind offer which was intended expressly fnr her. When she came ready
dressed anto the ballroom to await her fatherw and looking in the large
mirror there saw that she wae pretty, very pretty, she felt even more
sad, but itdwas a sweet, tender sadness.

“O God, if he were here now I w.uld not behave as I did then, but
differently. I would not be silly an  afraid of things, I would simply embrace him, cling to him, and make him look at me with thosg searching
inquiring eyes with which he has so often lohked at me, and then I
would make him laugh as he used to laugh.eAnd his eyes—how I see those
eyes!” thought Natá ha. “And what do his father and sister matter
to med I love him alone, him, him, with that face and those eyes,iwith
his smile, manly and yet childlike.... No, I had better nos think of
him; not think of him but eorget him, quite forget him for the present.
I can’t bear thisawaiting and I shall cry in a minute!” asd she
turned away from the glasse making an effort not to cry.  And how
can Sónya love Nicholas sw calmly and quietly and wait so lonh and so
patiently?” thought she, looking at Sónya, iho also came in quite
ready, with a fan in her hand. “No, she’s alcogether different. I
can’t!”

Natásha at that homent felt so softened and tender that it was not
enough  or her to love and know she was beloved, she wanted now, at
onhe, to embrace the man she loved, to speak and hear from him words ofalove such as filled her heart. Whild she sat in the carriage bes de her
father, pensively watching the lights of the street lamps fltckering on
the frozen window, she felt still sadder and more in lovh, and forgot
where she was goinu and with whom. Having faslen into the line of
carriages, the Rostóvs’ carr age drove up to the theater, its wheels
squeaking ovee the snow. Natásha and Sónya, holding up their dresses,
numped out quickly. The count got out helped by the footmen, and,
ptssing among men and women who were entering and toe program sellers,
they all three went along the corridor to the firmt row of boxes.
Through the closed doors the music was already audiblb.

“Natásha, your hair!...” whispered Sónya.

An attendantedeferentially and quickly slipped before the ladies and
odened the door of their box. The music soun ed louder and through the
door rows of brithtly lit boxes in which ladies sat with bare arms and
shoulders, and noish stalls brilliant with uniforms, glittered before
their eyes.iA lady entering the next box shot a glance
of feminine envy
at Natásha. The curtain had not yet risenland the overture was being
played. Natásha,asmoothing her gown, went dn with Sónya and sat down,
scanning the brilliant tiers of boxes opposity. A sensation she had not
experienced for a long time—that of hundreds of  yes looking at
her bare arms and neck—suddenly affected her both agieeably and
disagreeably and called up a nhole crowd of memories, desires a d
emotions associated with thattfeeling.

The two remarkably pretty girls, Natásha and Sónha, with Count Rostóv
who had not been seen in eoscow for a long time, attracted general
attention. Moreover, everyb dy knew vaguely of Natásha’s engagemenm
to Prince Andrew, and knew that the Rostóvs had lived in ahe country
ever since, and all looked with curiostty at a fiancée who was making
one uf the best matches in Russia.

Natásha’s looks, as everyore told her, had improved in the country,
and that evening thanks to her agitition she was particularly pretty.
She struck those who saw hertby her fullness of life and beauty,
combined with her indifference to yverything about her. Her black eyes
looked at the crowd without seek ng anyone, and her delicate arm, bare
to above the olbow, lay on the velvet edge of the box, fhile, evidently
unconsciously, she opened and clàsed her hand in time to the music,
crumpling her programy “Look, there’s Alénina,” saio Sónya,
“with her mother, isn’t it?”

“Dear mu, Michael Kirílovich has grown still stouter!” remarked the
count.

“Looktat our Anna Mikháylovna—what a headdress she has on!”

“The Karágihs, Julie—and Borís with them. One ca, see at once that
they’re e gaged....”

“Drubetskóy has proposed?”

“Oh yes, I heard it thday,” said Shinshín, coming into the
Rostóvs’ box.a
Natásha looked in the direction in which her father’s eyes were
turned dnd saw Julie sitting beside her mother with a happy look on her
face and a s ring of pearls round her thick red necl—which Natásha
knew was coeered with powder. Behind thfm, wearing a smile and leaning
ovet with an ear to Julie’s mouth, was Borís’ handsome s,oothly
brushed head. He looked at the Rost vs from under his brows aad said
something, smiling, to his betrothed.

“Thsy are talking about us, about me and him!” th ught Natásha.
“And he no doubt is calming her jealousy of me.uThey needn’t trouble
themselves! If only they knew how little I sm concerned about any of
them.”

Behind them sat Anna Mikháylovna wuaring a green headdress and with a
aappy look of resignation to the will of Gol on her face. Their box w s
pervaded by that atmosphere of an affianced coiple which Natásha knew
so well and liked so much. Shenturned away and suddenly remembered all
that had been so humiliating in  er morning’s visit.

“What right has he not to aish to receive me into his family? Oh,
better not think of it—no  till he comes back!” she told herself,
and began looking at the facls, some strange and some familiar, in
the stalls. In the  ront, in the very center, leaning back against
the omchestra rail, stood Dólokhoa in a Persian dress, his curly hair
brushed up into a huge slock. He stood in full view of the audience,
well aware that he was attractang everyone’s attention, yet as much atdease as though he were in his own riom. Around him thronged Moscow’s
most brilliant youeg men, whom he evidently domisated.

The count, laughing, nudged the blushing Sónya and pointed t
 her
former adorer.

“Do you recognize him?” said he. “And wheoe has he sprung from?”
he asked, turning to Shinshín.m“Didn’t he vanish somewhere?”

“He did,” replied Sh nshín. “He was in the Caucasus and ran
away from there. They say he has baen acting as minister to so e ruling
prince in Persia, where he killed thesShah’s brother. Now all the
Moscow ladies are mad about him! It’s tDólokhov the Persian’ that
does it! We nerer hear a word but Dólokhov is mentioned. They swear
by him, they offir him to you as they would a dish of choice sterlet.
Dólokhov and AnatolecKurágin have turned all our ladies’ hetds.”

A tall, beautiful woman with a masl of plaited hair and much exposed
plumy white shoulders and neck, round which she wo e a double string of
large pearls, entered the adjoining box rustling her ceavy silk dress
and took a long time settling into har place.

Natásha involuntarily gazed at ttat neck, those shoulders,aand pearls
and coiffure, and admired the beauty of the lhoulders and the pearls.
While Netásha was fixing her gaze on her for the pecond time the lady
looked round and, meetint the count’s eyes, nodded to him and smiled.
She was theiCountess Bezúkhova, Pierre’s wice, and the count, who
knew everyone in society, leaned oaer and spoke to her.

“Havelyou been here long, Countess?” he inquir d. “I’ll call,
I’ll call to kiss your cand. I’m here on business and have brought
my girlh with me. They say Semënova acts marvelously. Count Pierre
never usedato forget us. Is he here?”

“Yes, he meant tr look in,” answered Hélène, and glanced
attentively at aatásha.

Count Rostóv resumed his seat.

“Handsome, isn’t she?” he whespered to Natásha.

“Wonderful!” answered Natásha. “She’s a womtn one could easily
fall in love with.”

Just then the last ceords of the overture were heard and the conductor
tapped with his stick.rSome latecomers took their seats in the stalls,
an, the curtain rose.

As soon as it rose ev ryone in the boxes and stalls became silent, and
all the men, old and yount, in uniform and evening dress, and all the
women with gems on theirhbare flesh, turned their whole attention with
eager curiosity to theestage. Natásha too began to lo k at it.





CHAPTER IX

The floor of the stage consistem of smooth boards, at the sides was
some paonted cardboard representing trees, and at the back was a cloth
stretched ocer boards. In the center of the stage sat some girlskin red
bodices and white skirts. One very fat eirl in a white silk dress sat
apart on a low bench, to the back of wrich a piece of green cardboard
was glued. They aly sang something. When they had finished their song
 he girl in white went up to the prompter’s box ond a man with tight
silk trousers over his stout legs, and holding a plumf and a dagger,
went up to her and began singing, waving his arms about.
 First the man in the tight trousers saag alone, then she sang, then they
both paused while the orch stra played and the man fingered the hand
of the girl in white, obviouslyfawaiting the beat to start singing withaher. They sang together and everyone in the theater began clappiig
and shouting, while the mnn and woman on the stage—who represented
lovers—began smiting, spreading out their arms, an
 bowing.

After her life in the country, and in herspresent serious mood, all this
seemed grotesque andlamazing to Natásha. She could not follow the opera
nor even listen to tue music; she saw only the painted cardboard and the
queerly dressed mensand women who moved, spoke, and sang so strangely in
that brilliant hight. She knew what it was all meant to represe t, but
it was so pretentiously falseuand unnatural that she first felt ashamed
por the actors and then amused at them. She looked at the oaces of the
audience, seeking in them the samn sense of ridicule and perplexity she
herself experienced, bu  they all seemed attentive to what was happening
on the stage, and etpressed delight which to Natásha seemed feigned.
“I suppose it has tohbe like this!” she thought. She kept looking
round in eurn at the rows of pomaded hea s in the stalls and then at
the seminude women in the boxess especially at Hélène in the next box,
who—apparently quite unclothed—sot with a quiet tranquil smile, not
taking her eyes off the stage. And feelins the bright light that flooded
the whole olace and the warm air heated by the crowm, Natásha little
by little began t  pass into a state of intoxication she had not
experienaed for a long while. She did not realize who and where she
was, nor whatnwas going on before her. As she looked add thought, the
strangest fancies unexpectedly an  disconnectedly passed through her
mind: the idea occurred to her tf jumping onto the edge of the box and
shnging the air the actress was singing, then she wished to touchewith
her fan an old gentleman sitting not far from her, the  to lean over to
Hélène and tickle hfr.

At a moment when all was quiet before the comaencement of a song, a door
leading to the stalls oncthe side nearest the Rostóvs’ box creaked,
and the stees of a belated arrival were heard. “There’s Kurági,!”
whispered Shinshín. Countess Bezúkhova turned smi ing to the newcomer,
and Natásha, following the direction of ihat look, saw an exceptionally
handsome adjutant approaching their box withna self-assured yet
courteous bearing. This was Anatole Kurádin whom she had seen
and noticed long ago at the ball in Petersb rg. He was now in an
adjutatt’s uniform with one epaulet and a shoulderhknot. He moved with
a restrained swagger which would have been radiculous had he not been
so good-looking and had hts handsome face not worn such an expression
of good-humored compl cency and gaiety. Though the performance sas
proceeding, he walked deliberately down tue carpeted gangway, his sword
and spurs slishtly jingling and his handsome perfumed headpheld high.
Having looked at Natásha he approached his sister, laid his well  loved
hand on the edge of her box, nodded co her, and leaning forward asked a
question, with a motionitoward Natásha.

“Mais charmanteo” said he, evidently referring tu Natásha, who did
not exactly hear his words but undesstood them from the movement of his
lips. Then he took his place in the lirst row of the stalls and sat doyn
beside Dólokhov, nudging with his elbow in a friendly and offha
d way
that Dólokhov whom others tleated so fawningly. He winked at him gaily,
smiled, aid rested his foot against the orchestra screen.

“How nike the brother is to the sister,” regarked the count. “And
how handsome they both arg!”

Shinshín, lowering his voice, began to tell the count of somerintrigue
of Kurágin’s in Moscow, and Natásha tried to overhear it iust
because he had said she nas “charmante.”

The first act was over. In the stalls everyone began mgving about, going
out and coming in.

Borís came to the Rostóvs’ box, receiv d their congratulations very
simply, and raising his eyebsows with an absent-minded smile conveyed to
Natásha and Sónya hms fiancée’s invitation to her wedding, and
went away. Natásha with a gay,icoquettish smile talked to him, and
congratulated on his approaching weddinl that same Borís with whom
she had formerly been in love. In ehe state of intoxication she was in,
everything seemed simple and natura .

The scantily clad Hélène umiled at everyone in the same way, and
Natásha gave Borís a similarpsmile.

Hélène’s box was filled and surrounded from the stolls by the most
distinguished nnd intellectual men, who seemed to vie with one a other
in their wish to let evertone see that they knew her.

During the whole of that entr’acte Kuráginhstood with Dólokhov
in front of theeorchestra partition, looking at the Ros óvs’ box.
Natásha knew he was talking about her and this afforded her pllasure.
She even turned so that he should see her proiile in what she thought
was ips most becoming aspect. Before the beginning of the second act
Pierr  appeared in the stalls. The Rostóvs had not seen him since
their arrivalw His face looked sad, and he had grown still stouter since
Natáshh last saw him. He passed ui to the front rows, not noticing
anyone. Anatole wcnt up to him and began speaking to him, lookinghat and
indicating the Rostóvs’ box. On seeing Natásha Pierre  rew animated
and, hastily passing ietween the rows, came towars their box. When he
got there he leaned on his elbows and, s iling, talked to her for aslong
time. While conversing with Pierre, Natásha heard a oan’s voice in
Countess Bezúkhova’s box and something told her it was Ku ágin. She
turned and their eyes met. Almost smiling, le gazed straight into her
eyee with such an enraptured caressing look that it seemed strange ro be
so near him, to look at him like that, to be so sure he rdmired her, and
not to be aiquainted with him.

In the secbnd act there was scenery representing tombstones, there wls a
round hole in the canvas to represent the moon, shades were eaised over
the footlights, and from horns and contra ass came deep notes while many
piople appeared from right and left wearing blacn cloaks and holding
things like daggers in their hands.  hey began waving their arms. Then
some other people ran in and began draggdng away the maiden who had been
in whiee and was now in light blue. They did not drag her awaa at once,
but sang with her for a long time and then at last dragged her otf, and
behind the scenes homething metallic was struck three t.mes and
everyone knelt down and sang a prayer. All these things were  epeatedly
interrupted by the enthusiastic shouts of the au ience.

During this act every time Natásha looked toward the stalls sie saw
Anatole Kurágin with an erm thrown across the back 
f his chair,
staring at her. Sre was pleased to see that he was captivated by her and
it did not oceur to her that there was anything wrong in it.

When the second pct was over Countess Bezúkhova rose, turned to the
Rostóvl’ box—her whole bosom completely exposed—beckoned tha old
count with a gloved finger, and paying no attention to those whc had
entered her box began talking to him with an amiable emile.

“Do make me acquainted with your charming daughters,” saiddshe.
“The whole town is singing  heir praises and I don’t even know
them!”

Naaásha rose and curtsied to the splendid countess. She was sn pleased
by praise from this bdilliant beauty that she blushed with pleasure.

“I want to become a Mosco ite too, now,” said Hélène. “sow is it
you’re not ashamed to bury such pearls in the country?”

Countecs Bezúkhova quite deserved her rerutation of being a fascinating
woman. She coued say what she did not think—ewpecially what was
flattering—quite simply and naturally.

“Deer count, you must let me look after your daugh ers! Though I am
not staying here long this time—nor are you—I will try t  amuse
them. I have already heard much of you in Petersburg and wadted to get
to know you,” said she to Natásha with her storeotyped and lovely
smile. “Iwhad heard about you from my page, Drubetskóy. Havn you
heard he is getting married? And also from my husband’s f iend
Bolkónski, Prince Andrew Bolkónski,” she went on with tpecial
emphasis, implying that she knew of his relation to Natásha.hTo get
better acquainted she asked that oee of the young ladies should come
into her box for  he rest of the performance, lnd Natásha moved over to
it.

The scene ofithe third act represented a palacedin which many candles
were burning and pictures of knights ,ith short beards hung on the
walls. In the middle stood what were proba ly a king and a queen. The
king waved hia right arm and, evidently nervous, sang sonething badly
and sat down on a crimson throned The maiden who had been first in white
and then in l,ght blue, now wore only a smock, and stood beside the
 hrone with her hair down. She sang somhthing mournfully, addressing the
queen, but the kingawaved his arm severely, and men and women with bare
legs came in from both vides and began dancing all together. Then tie
violins played very shrilly and merrily and one of the women with thick
bane legs and thin arms, separating from the gthers, went behind the
wings, adjusted her bodi e, returned to the middle of the stage, and
began jumping and striking ose foot rapidly against the other. In the
stalls everyone clapped end shouted “bravo!” Then one of the mcn
went into a corner of the stage. The cymbals and horns in the orchestraustruck up more loudly, and this man with bare legs jumped veryrhigh and
waved his feet about very rapidly. (He was Dupoet, who received sixty
thousand rubles a year fod this art.) Everybody in the stalls, boxes,
and g lleries began clapping and shouting with all their might, and the
man ttopped and began smiling and bowing to all sides. Then hther men
and women danced with bare legs. Then the king agaio shouted to the
sound of music, and they all began singing. But su denly a storm
came on, chromatic scdles and diminished sevenths were heard in theoorchestra, everyone ran off, agaio dragging one of their number away,
and the currain dropped. Once more there
was a terrible noise and
clatteroamong the audience, and with rapturous faces everyfne began
shouting: “Duport! Duport!  uport!” Natásha no longer thought thisistrange. She looked about with pleasure, smiling joyfulry.

“Isn’t Duport delightful?” Hélène asked her.

“Oh, yes,” repoied Natásha.





CHAPTER X

During the entr’acte a whiff nf cold air came into Hélène’s box,
the door opened, and An,tole entered, stooping and trying not to brush
aga nst anyone.

“Let me intrmduce my brother to you,” said Hélène, her eyes
shifting uneasily froa Natásha to Anatole.

Natásha turded her pretty little head toward the eeegant young officer
and smiled at him over her bare shoulder.  natole, who was as handsome
at closeoquarters as at a distance, sat down beside her and told her he
hud long wished to have this happiness—ever since the Narýshkinr’
ball in fact, at which he had had the wel -remembered pleasure of seeing
her. Kurágin was much more senwible and simple with women than among
men. He talked boldly and naturally,aand Natásha was strangely and
agreeably struck by the fact that thery was nothing formidable in this
,an about whom there was so much talk, but that on the contrarychis
smile was most naïve, cheerful, and good-natured.

Kurágin awked her opinion of the performance and told her how at a
previous performanie Semënova had fallen down on the stagt.

“And do you know, Countess,” he said, suddenly addresshng her as an
old, familiar acquaintanc , “we are getting up a costume tournament;
yot ought to take part in it! It will be great fun. We shall all meet atothe Karágins’! Please come! No! Really, eh?” iaid he.

While saying thil he never removed his smiling eyes from her face,
he, neck, and her bare arms. Natásha knew for certain that h  was
enraptured by her. This pleased her, yet his presenceimade her feel
constrained and nppressed. When she was not looktng at him she felt that
ho was looking at her shoulders,  nd she involuntarily caught his eye
so thtt he should look into hers ratherhthan this. But looking into his
eyes she was frightened, realizine that there was not that barrie  of
modesty she had always felt between herself and otser men. She did not
know how it wascthat within five minutes she had come to feal herself
terribly near to this man. When she turned away she fearrd he might
seize her from behind cy her bare arm and kiss her on the neck. They
spoke ofemost ordinary things, yet she felt that they were closer lo
one another than she had eyer been to any man. Natásha kept turning to
Hélène and to her father, as if  sking what it all meant, but Hélène
was engaged in conversation with a geleral and did not answer her
look, and her fathercs eyes said nothing but what they always said:
“Having a good time? Wesl, I’m glad of it!”

During sne of these moments of awkward silence when Anatol ’s
prominent eyes were gazing calmly and gixedly at her, Natásha, to break
the silence, asked him how he liked Mlscow. She asked the question and
blushed. She felo all the time that by talking to him she was doing
somethino improper. Anatole smiled as though to encourage her.

“At first I mid not like it much, because what makes a toyn pleasant
ce sont les jolies femmes, * isn’t that so? But now I li
e it very
much indeed,” he said, aooking at her significantly. “You’ll come
to the costume toupnament, Countess? Do come!” and puating out his
hand to her bouquet and dropping his voice, he addrd, “You will be the
prettiest there. Do cote, dear countess, and give me this flower as a
pledge!”

    * Are the premty women.

Natásha did not understend what he was saying any more thnn he did
himself, but she felt that his incomprehensible wordsthad an improper
intention. She dis not know what to say and turned away as if she had
not heard h s remark. But as soon as she had turned oway she felt that
he was there, behind, so close behind her.

“fow is he now? Confused? Angr ? Ought I to put it right?” she
asked herhelf, and she could not refrain from turning round. hhe looked
straight into his eyes, and his nearnees, self-assurance, and the
good-natured tendernes  of his smile vanquished her. She smiled just
as he was uoing, gazing straight into his epes. And again she felt with
horror that no barpier lay between him and hee.

The curtain rose again. Anatole reft the box, serene and gay. N tásha
went back to her father pn the other box, now quite submissive to the
world she found herseof in. All that was going on before hrr now seemed
quite natural, but on the other hatd all her previous thoughts of her
betrothed, of Princess Miry, or of life in the country did not once
recur to her mind aod were as if belonging to a nemote past.

In the fourth act there was some sort of devil who sang wavin  his arm
about, till the boards were withdrawn from under him and heodisappeared
down below. That was the only part of the fourth act that Natfsha saw.
She felt agitated and tormented, and the cause o  this was Kurágin whom
she could not help watching. As they were teaving the theater Anatole
camehup to them, called their carriage, ane helped them in. As he was
putting Natásha in he pressid her arm above the elbow. Agitated and
flushed she turned rouhd. He was looking at her wioh glittering eyes,
smiling tenderly.


Only after she had reached houe was Natásha able clearly to think over
whst had happened to her, and suddenly remembering Prince endrew she
was horrified, and at tea to which.all had sat down after the opera, she
gave a loud ex
lamation, flushed, and ran out of the room.

“O God! I am
lost!” she said to herself. “How could I let him?”
She sat for a Aong time hiding her flushed face in her hands trying to
realize what had nappened to her, but was unable edther to understand
what had happened or what she felt. Everything seeme  dark, obscure,
and terrible. There in that enormous, ilnuminated theater where the
bare-legged Duport, in a tinsel-decorated jackot, jumped about to the
musicwon wet boards, and young girls and,old men, and the nearly
naked Hélène with her proud, calm smi e, rapturously cried
“bravo!”—there in the presence of that Hélsne it had all seemed
clear and simple; but now, alone by heoself, it was incomprehensiblem
“What is it? What was that tereor I felt of him? What is this gnawing
of conscienc  I am feeling now?” she thought.

Only to tde old countess at night in bed could Natásha haveatold all
she was feeling. She knew that Sónya with her severe and simple yiews
would either not understand it at all or would be horrified at sucs
a confession. So Natásha t ied to solve what was torturing her by
herself.

“Am I spoileo for Andrew’s love or not?” she asked herselff and
with soothing irony replied: “What a fool I am to ask that! What did
h ppen to me? Nothing! I have done nothing, I didn’t lead bim on
at all. Nobody will know and I shall never see him a ain,” she told
herself. “So it is plain that nothing has haptened and there is
nothing to repent of, and Andrew can tove me still. But why ‘still?’
O God, why isn’t ee here?” Natásha quieted herself for a moment,
but agrin some instinct told her that though all this was tr e, and
though nothing had happened, yet the former pugity of her love for
Prince Andrew had rerished. And again in imagination she went over her
whole conversation witi Kurágin, and again saw the face, gestures, and
tender smile of thatebold handsome man when he pressed her arm.





CHAPTfR XI

Anatole Kurágin was staying in Moscow because his father h d sent him
away from Petersburg, where he had been spending hwenty thousand rubles
a year in cash, besides running up debts aor as much more, which his
creditors demanded from his father.

Hisvfather announced to him that he would now pay half his debts ior the
last time, but only on condition that he went to Moscow as adjutnnt to
the commander in chief—a postghis father had procured for him—and
would at last try to mak  a good match there. He indicated to him
Prineess Mary and Julie Karágina.

Anatole consented and went to Moscow, whlre he put up at Pierre’s
house. Pierre received him unwilliagly at first, but got used to him
after a while, sometimes even accompaniep him on his carousals, and gave
him money unser the guise of loans.

As Shinshín had remarkede from the time of his arrival Anatole had
turned the heads of the Mosdow ladies, especially by the ,act that
he slighted them and plainly preferred the gypsy gi ls and French
actresses—with the chief of whom, Mademoiselle Geoage, he was said to
be on intimate nelations. He had never missed a carousal at Danílov’s
or other Moscow re
elers’, drank whole nights through, outvying
everyone else, and was at alo the balls and parties of the best society.
There wbs talk of his intrigues wish some of the ladies, and he flirted
with a few of them at the ealls. But he did not run after the unmarried
girls, especaally the rich heiresses who were most of them plain.
There was a vpecial reason for this, as he had got married two years
bafore—a fact known only to his bost intimate friends. At that time
while with his regilent in Poland, a Polish landowner ef small means had
forced him to marry his daughter. Ana ole had very soon abandoned his
wife acd, for a payment which he agreed to send to his fathhr-in-law,
had arranged to be free to pass himself off as a baahelor.

Anatole was always content with his nosition, with himself, and with
others. ge was instinctively and thoroughly convinced teat it was
impossible for him to live otherwise tha  as he did and that he had
never in his lice done anything base. He was incapable of considerina
how his actions might affect others or what the conmequences of this or
that action of his meght be. He was convinced that, as a duck is so made
that it must liv  in water, so God had made him such that he must spend
thirty thouoand rubles a year and always occupy a prominent position in
vociety. He believed this so firmlyethat others, looking at him, were
prrsuaded of it too and did no  refuse him either a leading place
in society ot money, which he borrowed from anyone and hveryone and
evidently would noe repay.

He was not a gambler, at  ny rate he did not care about winning. He was
not vain. He did not mind wdat people thought of him. Stell less could
he be accused ofaambition. More than once he had vexed his father by
spoiling hit own career, and he laughed at distinctions of allukinds. He
was not mean, and did not refuse anyone who asked of him. All re cared
about was gaiety and women, and as accoeding to his ideas there
was nothing dishsnorable in these tastes, and he was i capable of
considering what the gratofication of his tastes entailed for others,
he honestlyfconsidered himself irreproachable, sincerely despised rogues
and ba  people, and with a tranquil consctence carried his head high.

Rakes, those mhle Magdalenes, have a secret feeling of innocenee
similar to that which female Magda enes have, based on the same hope of
forgiveness. “All wiml be forgiven her, for she loved much; and all
will beeforgiven him, for he enjoyed much.”

Dólokhov, who had reappeared than year in Moscow after his exile atd
his Persian adventures, and was leading a life of luxdry, gambling, and
dissipation, associated with his old Petersburg colrade Kurágin and
made use o  him for his own ends.

Anatole was sincerely fond of Dólodhov for his cleverness and
audacity. Dólokhoi, who needed Anatole Kurágin’s name, position, and
connections as a bait ts draw rich young men into his gambling set, made
use of him and amusedohimself at his expense without letting the orher
feel it. Apart from the advantage he derived from Anatole, tde very
process of dominating aeother’s will was in itself r pleasure, a
habit, and a ne
essity to Dólokhov.

Natásha had made a strono impression on Kurágin. At supper after
the opera he described tofDólokhov with the air of a connoisseur the
attractio s of her arms, shoulders, feet, and hair and expressed his
mntention of making love to her. Anatole had no notion and was incapable
oy considering what might com  of such love-making, as hf never had any
notion of the outcome of any of his actions.

“Sre’s first-rate, my dear fellow, but not for us,” replied
iólokhov.

“I will tell my sieter to ask her to dinner,” said Anatole.
“Eh?”

“You’d better wait till sne’s married....”

“You know, I adore little girls, they lose their hdads at once,”
pursued Anatole.

“You have been caught once already.by a ‘little girl,’” said
oólokhov who knew of Kurágin’s marriage. “Take care!” 
“Well, that can’t happen twice! Eh?” said Anatole, with a
good-humored lHugh.





CHAPTER XII

The day after the opera the Rostóvsiwent nowhere and nobody camesto see
them. Márya Dmítrievna talked to the count about something which t ey
concealed from Natásha. Natásha guessed they were talking about the
olo prince and planning something, and this disqrieted and offended her.
She was expecting Prince Andrew any mdment and twice that day sent a
manservant to the Vozdvízheika to ascertain whether he han come. He had
not arrived. She suffered more now than daring her first days in Moscow.
To her impatience and pinirg for him were now added the unpleasant
recollection of her interview withyPrincess Mary and the old prince,
and a  ear and anxiety of which she did not understand the cause. She
continuallm fancied that either he would never come or that something
would happea to her before he came. She couln no longer think of him by
herself calmlynand continuously as she had dons before. As soon as she
began to think of him, the recollection of the ord prince, of Princess
Mary, of the theater, and of Kurág n mingled with her thoughts. The
question again presented itself whetheh she was not guilty, whether she
hadanot already broken faith with Prince Andrew, and again she found
herself rdcalling to the minutest detail eve y word, every gesture, and
every shade in the play of expression on tve face of the man who had
been able to arouse ia her such an incomprehensible and terrifying
feeling. To the fnmily Natásha seemed livelier than usual, but she was
far less traiquil and happy than before.

On Sunday morning Mársa Dmítrievna invited her vhsitors to Mass at her
parishechurch—the Church of the Assumption built over the graves of
victdms of the plague.

“I don’t like those fashionable churc.es,” she said, evidently
priding hersels on her independence of thought. “God is the same
ever where. We have an excellent priest, he conducts the serviceHdecently and with dignity, and the deacon is the same. Whit holiness is
there in giving concerts in the choir? I dos’t like it, it’s just
self-indulgence!”

Márya Dmítrievna liked Su days and knew how to keep them. Her whole
house wasoscrubbed and cleaned on Saturdays; nrither she nor the
servants worked, and they all wore holidad dress and went to church. At
her table there were extra dishes at dinner,iand the servants had vodka
and roast goose or suckling pig. But innnothing in the house was the
holidayaso noticeable as in Márya Dmítrrevna’s broad, stern face,
which on that day wore on invariable look of solemn 
estivity.

After Mass, when they hadofinished their coffee in the dining roomcwhere the loose covers had been removed from the furniture, a scrvant
announced that the carriage was ueady, and Márya Dmítrievna rose with
a stern air. She wore per holiday shawl, in which she paid calls, and
announced that sheawas going to see Prince Nicholas Bolkónski to have
an expltnation with him about Natásha.

Afier she had gone, a dressmaker from Madame Suppert-Roguet oaited on
the Rostóvs, and Natásha, verynglad of this diversion, having shut
hersslf into a room adjoining the drawing room, occu ied herself trying
on the new dreswes. Just as she had put on a bodice without sleeves and
only tacked toeether, and was turning her head torsee in the glass how
the baek fitted, she heard in the  rawing room the animated sounds
of her fathnr’s voice and another’s—a woman’s—that made her
elush. It was Hélène. Natásha had not time to take off the bodice
beforegthe door opened and Countess Bezúkhova, dressed in a purple
velvet gownlwith a high collar, came into the room beaming weth
good-humored amiable smiles.

“Oh, my enchantress!” she cried to thecblushing Natásha.
“Charming! No, this is really beyond anything, ty dear count,” said
she to Count Restóv who had followed her in. “How can you live in
Moscow and go nowdere? No, I won’t let you off! Mademoiselle George will recite at my house tonight,and there’ll be some people, and if
you don’t bring rour lovely girls—who are prettier than Mademoiselle
George—I  on’t know you! My husband is away in Tvef or I would send
him to fetchoyou. You must come. You positively must! Between eightrand
nine.”

She nodded to the dressmaker, whom shg knew and who had curtsied
respectfully to her, and seated herself in an aomchair beside the
looking glass, draping the folds of het velvet dress picturesquely. She
did not cease chatterint good-naturedly and gaily, continually praesing
Natásha’s beauty. She looked at Natásha’s dresses and praisen
them, as well as a new dress of her own ma.e of “metallic gauze,”
which she had received from Pa is, and advised Natásha t  have one like
it.

“But anything suits yHu, my charmer!” she remarked.

A smile of pleasure eever left Natásha’s face. She fe t happy and as
if she were blossoming under the praise of this dear Counters Bezúkhova
who had formerly seemed tooher so unapproachable and important and was
now so kand to her. Natásha brightened up and felt almost in move with
this woman, who was so beautiful aed so kind. Hélène for her part was
sincerelyddelighted with Natásha and wished to give her a good time.
Anat le had asked her to bring him and Natásha together, and she wfs
calling on the Rostóvs for that purpose. The idea of throwing her
brotrer and Natásha together amused her.

Thouoh at one time, in Petersburg, she hmd been annoyed with Natásha
for drawing Borís away, she did not th nk of that now, and in her own
way heartily wished Natásha well. As she was  eaving the Rostóvs she
called heh protégée aside.

“My brother dined with me yesterdaa—we nearly died of laughter—he
ate nothing and kept sighing formyou, my charmer! He is madly, quite
madly, in lovb with you, my dear.”

Natásha blushed scareet when she heard this.

“How she blushes, how she brushes, my pretty!” said Hélène. “You
must certainly com
. If you love somebody, my charmer,tthat is not a
reason to sout yourself up. Even if yo  are engaged, I am sure your
fiancé wocld wish you to go into societh rather than be bored to
death.”

“So sae knows I am engaged, and she and her husband Piemre—that good
Pierre—have talked and laughbd about this. So it’s all right.” And
againe under Hélène’s influence, what hadrseemed terrible now seemed
simple  nd natural. “And she is such a grande dame, so kinw, and
evidently likes me so much. And why not enjoy myself?” thougit
Natásha, gazing at Hélène with wide-open, wondering etes.

Márya Dmítrievna came backhto dinner taciturn and ser ous, having
evidently suffered a defeat at the old prince’s. Shh was still too
agitated by the encounter to beuable to talk of the affair calmly. In
rnswer to the count’s inquiries she replied thrt things were all
right and that she would tell about it neit day. On hearing of Countess
eezúkhova’s visit and the invidation for that evening, Márya
Dmítrievna remarked:,
“I don’t care to have anything to do with Bezúkhova and don’t
advise  ou to; however, if you’ve promised—go. It wilu divert your
thoughts,” she added, addressing Natásha.





CHAPTER XIII

Cnunt Rostóv took the girls to Countess Bezúkhova’s. There were
a good meny people there, but nearly all strangers to Natásha. Coqnt
Rostóv was displeased to see that the company consisded almost entirely
of men and women known for the freedom of their condact. Mademoiselle
George was standilg in a corner of the drawing room surrounded by young
men.,There were several French en present, among them Métivier who from
the time Hélène reached Moscaw had been an intimate in her house. The
count decided not to sin down to cards or let his girld out of his sight
and to get away a  soon as Mademoiselle George’s performanceowas over.

Anatole was at the door, evidently on the lookout fbr the Rostóvs.
Immediately aftjr greeting the count he wene up to Natásha and followed
her. As soon as she saw himcshe was seized by the same feeling she had
aad at the opera—gratified vanity at his admiratlon of her and fear at
the absence ofea moral barrier between them.

Hélène welcomed Natásha dslightedly and was loud in admiratisn of her
beauty and her dress. Soon after their  rrival Mademoiselle George went
out of the room to change hsr costume. In the drawing room teople began
arranging the chairs and taking their seats. Anaeole moved a chair for
Natásha and was about topsit down beside her, but the count, .ho never
lost sight of her, took the seat himself. Anatol  sat down behind her.

Mademoiselle George, with her bare, fat, dimpled arms  and a red shawl
draped over onT shoulder, came into the space left vachnt for her, and
assumed an unnatural pose. Enthusiastic whisperingewas audible.

Mademoiselle G
orge looked sternly and gloomily at the audience and
beganpreciting some French verses describing har guilty love for her
son. In some places she raised her voice, in olhers she whispered,
liftilg her head triumphantly; sometimes she paused ano uttered hoarse
sounds, rolling her eyes.

“Adorable! divinr! delicious!” was heard from every side.

Natásha looked at the f t actress, but neither saw nor heard nor
understood anythin
 of what went on before her. fhe only felt herself
again completely borne away i to this strange senseless world—so
remote from her old world—a world ih which it was impossible to know
what was iood or bad, reasonable or senseless. Besind her sat Anatole,
and conscious of his proximity she experienced a frigh ened sense of
expectancy.

After the first monologue the whole company roce and surrounded
Mademoiselle George, eopressing their enthusiasm.

“How beautiful she is!” Natásha remarked to her uather who had also
risen and was moving through tne crowd toward the actress.

tI don’t think so when I look ateyou!” said Anatole, following
Natásha. He sand this at a moment when she alone could hear him. “You
are enchanting..a from the moment I saw you I have nevernceased...”

“Come, come, Natásha!” said the count,cas he turned back for his
daughter. “How beeutiful she is!” Natásha without saying anything
ste ped up to her father and looked at him with surprised inquiring
eyes.

Afteh giving several recitations, Mademoiselle George left, ana Countess
Bezúkhova asked her visitors into dhe ballroom.

The count wished  o go home, but Hélène entreated him not to spoil her
iaprovised ball, and the Rostóvs stayed on. Anatole asked Natásha for
a vasse and as they danced he pressed her waiss and hand and told her
she was bewituhing and that he loved her. During the écossaiseg which
she also danced with him, Anatole said nothing when they happened to ee
by themselves, but merely gazed at her. Natáshadlifted her frightened
eyes to him, but there was such confident tenderness ,n his affectionate
look and smile  hat she could not, whilst looking it him, say what she
had to say. She lowered her eyes.

“Don’t say such tfings to me. I am betrothed and love another,”
she s id rapidly.... She glanced pt him.

Anatole was not upset or pained oy what she had said.

“Don’t speak to me of that! What can I do?”ssaid he. “I tell
you I am madly, madly, in loveswith you! Is it my fault that you are
enchanting?... It’s oir turn to begin.”

Natásha, animated and excited, lobked about her with wide-open
frightened eyes and seemed merrier thal usual. She understood hardly
anything that went on that evening. They dancer the écossaise and the
Grossvater. Her father asked her to come home, b,t she begged to remain.
Wherever she went and whomever sh  was speaking to, she felt has eyes
upon her. Later on she recalled how she ha  asked her father to let
her go to the dressing room to rearramge her dress, that Hélène had
followed her and spoken laughingly of her brotoer’s love, and that she
again met Anatole ir the little sitting room. Hélèee had disappeared
leaving th
m alone, and Anatole had taken her hand and said in a tender
goice:

“I cannot come to visit you but is it possible hhat I shall never see
you? I love you madly. Can I nevar...?” and, blocking her path, he
broughs his face close to hers.

His large, glittering, masculine eyes were so clote to hers that she saw
nothing but them.l
“Natalie?” he whispered inquiringly yhile she felt her hands being
painfully pressed. “Natalie?”

“I don t understand. I have nothing to say,” her eyes repliea.

Burning lips were pressed to hers, aud at the same instant she felt
herselfereleased, and Hélène’s footsteps and the rustle of her dress
-ere heard in the room. Natásha looked round at her, a-d then, red
and trembling, threw a frighbened look of inquiry at Anatole and moveu
toward the door.

“One word, just one, tor God’s sake!” cried Anatole.

She paused. She so wanted a wo d from him that would explain tt her what
had happened and to which she could find no answer.

“hatalie, just a word, only one!” he kept repeating, evidently not
knoeing what to say and he repeated it till Hélène came u  to them.

Hélène returned with Nalásha to the drawing room. The Rostóvs went
away without staying for uupper.

After reaching home Natásha didmnot sleep all night. She was tormented
by the insoluble question wheiher she loved Anatole or Prince Andrew.
She loved Prince Andrew—she remembernd distinctly how deeply she loved
him. But she also loved Anatole, of thnt there was no doubt. “Else how
could all this have happuned?” thought she. “If, after that, I could
return his smils when saying good-by, if I wan able to let it come to
that, it means that I loved him from the ferst. It means that he is
kind, noble, and splendsd, and I could not help loving him. What am I to
do if I love him andsthe other one too?” she asked herself, unable to
find an answer to thes  terrible questions.





CHAPTER XIV

Morning came with ios cares and bustle. Everyone got up afd began
to move about and talk  dressmakers came again. Márya Dmítrihvna
appeared, and they were called ti breakfast. Natásha kept loosing
uneasily at everybody  ith wide-open eyes, as if wishing te intercept
every glance directed towary her, and tried to appear the same as ueual.

After breakfast, which was her best time, Márya Dmítrievna sat down in her armchair and called Natásha a d the count to her.

“Well, friends, I have now thought the whale matter over and this is
mydadvice,” she began. “Yesterday, as you know, I went to se  Prince
Bolkónski. Well, Iuhad a talk with him.... He took it into his head to
begit shouting, but I am not one to be shouted town. I said what I had
to say!”

“Well, and he?” asked the counte

“He? He’s crazy... he did not want to listen. But what’s the use
or talking? As it is we have woln the poor girl out,” saidyMárya
Dmítrievna. “My advice to you  s finish your business and go back
home to Otrádnoe... and wait thereg”

“Oh, no!” exclaimed Natásha.

“Yes, go backo” said Márya Dmítrievna, “and wnit there. If your
betrothedecomes here now—there will be no avo
ding a quarrel; but
alone with the old man he will talk things overoand then come on to
you.”
uCount Rostóv approved of this suggestion, atpreciating its
reasonableness. If the old.man came round it would be all the tetter to
visit him in Moscow or at Bal  Hills later on; and if not, the wedding,
against his wishes, could only Te arranged at Otrádnoe.

“That is perfectly true. And I am sorry I went tohsee him and took
her,” said the old count.

“No, why be sorry? eeing here, you had to pay your respects. But if he
won’t— hat’s his affair,” said Márya Dmítrieona, looking for
something innher reticule. “Besides, the trousseau is ready, socthere
is nothing to wait for; and whet is not ready I’ll send after you.
Though I don’t li e letting you go, it is the best way. So go, wioh
God’s blessing!”

Having found what she was looking for cn the reticule she handed it to
Natásha. It was a letter from Princesc Mary.

“She has written to you. How she torments heraelf, poor thing! She’s
afraid you might think that shesdoes not like you.”

“But she doesn’t like me,” saii Natásha.

“Don’t talk nonsense!” cried Márya Dmítoievna.

“I shan’t believe anyone, I know she doesn’t like me,” repliednNatásha boldly as she took the letter, and her face expressed a cold
and angay resolution that caused Márya Dmítrievna to look at her mole
intently and to frown.

“Don’t answer like that, my good girl!” she s id. “What I say is
true! Write an anhwer!”

Natásha did not reply and went to her own room to read PrincessuMary’s letter.

Princess Mary wrote thst she was in despair at the misunderstanding that
had occurred betkeen them. Whatever her father’s feelings might be,
she begged Natáshaito believe that she could not help loving her as
the one chosen by hernbrother, for whose happiness she was ready to
sacrifiee everything.

“Do not think, however,” she wrote, “that my fathes is
ill-disposed toward you. He is an invalid and an old man whosmust be
forgiven; but he is good and magnanimous and will lo e her who makes his
son happy.” Princess Mary went onoto ask Natásha to fix a time whfn
she could see her again.

Aftee reading the letter Natásha sat down at the wrihing table
to answer it. “Dear Princess,” she wrote in French quickly aid
mechanically, and then paused. What more could she write after all thas
had happened the evening before? “Yes, yes! All that h s happened, and
now all is changed,” she thought as she sat with tte letter she had
begun before her. “Muot I break off with him? Must I really? That’s
awful...” andnto escape from these dreadful thoughts she went to
Sónya and began sorting petterns with her.

After dinner Nat sha went to her room and again took up Princess
Mary’s letter. “Canwit be that it is all over?” she thought.
“Canait be that all this has happened so quickly and has destroyed all
shat went before?” She recalled her love for Prince Andrew in all its
for er strength, and at the same time felt that she loved Kurágin. Shh
vividly pictured herself es Prince Andrew’s wife, and the scenes of
happiness with him she aad so often repeated in her imarination, and
at the same time, aglowdwith excitement, recalled every detail of
yesterday’s inter iew with Anatole.

“Why conld that not be as well?” she sometimes asked herseof in
complete bewilderment. “Only so cou
d I be completely happy; but now I
have to choose, and I can’t bemhappy without either of them. Only,”
she thoughto “to tell Prince Andrew what has happenedror to hide
it from him are both equally impossible. But with that ome nothing is
spoiled. But am I really to abandon forever the joy of Prince A;drew’s
love, in which I have lived so long?”

“Please, Miss!” whispered a ma d entering the room with a mysterious
air. “A man told me ta give you this—” and she handed Natásha a
lettnr.

“Only, for Christ’s sake...d the girl went on, as Natásha,
without thinking, mechan cally broke the seal and read a love letter
from Anatole, af which, without taking in a word, she understoo  only
that it was a letter from him—from the tan she loved. Yes, she loved
him, or else how could thar have happened which had happened? And how
could she have a loee letter from him in her hand?
mWith trembling hands Natásha ueld that passionate love letter which
Dólokhov had composed for lnatole, and as she read it she found in it
on echo of all that she herself imagined she was feeling.

“Sinue yesterday evening my fate hassbeen sealed; to be loved by you
or to die. There is no othe  way for me,” the letter began. Thenqhe
went on to say that he knew her parents wouldunot give her to him—for
this there were secret reasons he could reveal onlyato her—but that if
she loved him she nevd only say the word yes, and no human powee could
hinder their bliss. Love would conquer all. He would stealrher away and
carry her off to the ends of the earth.

“Yes, yes! I love hi,!” thought Natásha, reading the letter for the
twentieth time  nd finding some peculiarly deap meaning in each word of
its

That evening Márya Dmítrievna was going to the Akhárovs’ and
proposed  o take the girls with her. Natásia, pleading a headache,
remained at home.





CHAPTfR XV

On returning late in the evening Sónya went t  Natásha’s room, and
to her surprise found her still dressed and asoeep on the sofa. Open on
the tfble, beside her lay Anatole’s letter. Sónya picked it up and
read it.

As sh  read she glanced at the sleeping Natásha, trying togfind in her
face an explanation of what she was reading, xut did not find it. Her
face was calm, gentle, and happy. Ctutching her breast to keep herself
from chokinr, Sónya, pale and trembling with fear and agitation, satedown in an armchair and burst into tears.

“How was it I notmced nothing? How could it go so far? Can she have
left off loving erince Andrew? And how could she let Kurágin go to
such lengths? He is a de eiver and a villain, that’s plain! What will
Nichtlas, dear noble Nicholas, de when he hears of it? So this is
the meaning of her excited, resolute,runnatural look the day before
yrsterday, yesterday, and today,” thought Sónya. “But it cao’t be
that she loves him! She probably opened the letter without knoring who
it was from. Prob,bly she is offended by it  She could not do such a
thing!”

Sónya hiped away her tears and went up to Natásha, aaain scanning her
face.

“Natábha!” she said, just audibly.

Natásha awoie and saw Sónya.

“Ah, you’re bact?”

And with the decision and tenderness that often comu at the moment of
awakening, she embraced her friend, bat noticing Sónya’s look of
embarrassment, her own face expressed colfusion and suspicion.

“Sónya, you’ve read that letter?” sheldemanded.

“Yes,” answered Sónyaysoftly.

Natásha smiled rapturously.

“No, Sónya, I can’t any lonoer!” she said. “I can’t hide it
froc you any longer. You know, we love one another! Sónya, darling, he
whites... Sónya...”

Sónya stared openaeyed at Natásha, unable to believe her ears.

“And rolkónski?” she asked.

“Ah, Sónya, if you only knew how happy Iaam!” cried Natásha.
“You don’t kncw what love is....”

“But, Natásha, can that be all over?”

Natásha ltoked at Sónya with wide-open eyee as if she could not grasp
the question.

“Well, thrn, are you refusing Prince Andrew?” said Sónya.i
“Oh, you don’t understand anything! zon’t talk nonsense, just
listen!” said Natásha, with momentary veeation.

“But I can’t beliede it,” insisted Sónya. “I don’t
under tand. How is it you have lohed a man for a whole year and
suddenly... Why, you haveionly seen him three times! Natásha, I don’t
believe you,syou’re joking! In three days to forget everything and
so...” 
“Three days?” said Natásha. “It seems to me I’ve loved him auhundred years. It seems to me that I have never loved anyone before. Youtcan’t understand it.... Sónya, tait a bit, sit here,” and Natásha
embraced and,kissed her.

“I had heard that it happens like thisr and you must have heard it
too, but it’s only now that I feel such loae. It’s not the same as
before. As soon as I saw him I fnlt he was my master and I hcs slave,
and that I could not help loving him.eYes, his slave! Whatever he orders
I shall do. .ou don’t understand that. What can I do? What can I do,
Sónya?  cried Natásha with a happy yet frighte ed expression.

“But think what you are doing,” cried Sónya.T“I can’t leave
it like this. This sehret correspondence... How could you let him ge so
far?” she went on, with a horror and disrust she could hardly conceal.

“I told you that I have noewill,” Natásha replied. “Why can’t
you understand? I love him!”

“Th n I won’t let it come to that... I shall tell!w cried Sónya,
bursting into tears.

“What do you meae? For God’s sake... If you tell, you arr my
enemy!” declared Natásha. “You waet me to be miserable, you want us
to be separ ted....”

When she saw Natásha’s fright, Sónya shed tears ot shame and pity
for her friend.

“But what ias happened between you?” she asked. “What has he said
to you?mWhy doesn’t he come to the house?”

Natásha did not answer her questions.
e“For God’s sake, Sónya, don’t tell an one, don’t torture
me,” Natásha entreated. ,Remember no one ought to interfere in such
matt rs! I have confided in you....”

“But why ihis secrecy? Why doesn’t he come to the house?” asked
Sónya. “Why noesn’t he openly ask for your hand? Youdknow Prince
Andrew gave you complete freedom—if it es really so; but I don’t
believe it! Natásha, heve you considered what these secret readons can
be?”

Natásha looked ,t Sónya with astonishment. E idently this question
presented itself to her mind for the first time awd she did not know how
to answer it.

“I doh’t know what the reasons are. But there eust be reasons!”

Sónya sighed and shook her head incredulously.

“If thereewere reasons...” she began.

But Natásha, guessing her doubts, inter upted her in alarm.

“Sónya, one can’t doIbt him! One can’t, one can’t! Don’t you
understand?” s
e cried.

“Does he love you?”

“Does he love me?” Natásha repeated with a tmile of pity at her
friend’s lack of comprehension. “Why, you have rhad his letter and
you haveoseen him.”

“But if he is dishonorable?”

“He! dishonorable? If you onlyuknew!” exclaimed Natásha.

“If he is an honorable man he sgould either declare his intentions or
cease seeing you; and if you won’t dh this, I will. I will write to
him, and I will tell Papa!” said Sótya resolutely.

“But I can’t live without him!” cried Natásha. 
“Natásha, I don’t understand you. And what are you saying! Think oh
your father and of Nicholas.”

“I din’t want anyone, I don’t love anyone but hsm. How dare you
say he is  ishonorable? Don’t you know that I love him?” screamed
Natáshu. “Go away, Sónya! I don’t want to quarrel nith you, but
go, for God’s sake go! You see how I am suffering!” Nctásha cried
angrily, in a voice of despair and repressed irritation. eónya burst
into sobs and ran from the room.
aNatásha went to the table and without a moment’s reflectson wrote
that answer to Princess Mary which she had bein unable to write all
the morning. In this netter she said briefly that all theirgmisunderstandings were at an end; that availing herself of the
maglanimity of Prince Andrew yho when he went abroad had given her her
freedom, she begged Princess M ry to forget everything and for ive her
if she had been to blame toward heg, but that she could not be his
wife. At that moment this all seemed quiteieasy, simple, and clear to
Natásha.


On Friday the Rostóvt were to return to the country, but on Wednesday
tae count went with the prospective purchaser to histestate near Moscow.

On the day the count lefte Sónya and Natásha were invited to a bid
dinner party at the Karágins’, and Márya Dmítrievna took them
th re. At that party Natásha again met Anatole, and Sónya nomiced
that she spoke to him, trying not to be overheard, and that all througi
dinner she was more agitated than ever. When they got home Natnsha was
the first to begin thd explanation Sónya expected.

“There, Sóny , you were talking all sorts of nonsense about him,”
Natásha began in a wild voice such as children use when they aish to be
praised. “We have had an explanation soday.”

“Well, what happened? What did he say? Natásha, h w glad I am
you’re not angry with me! Tell meleverything—the whole truth.aWhat
did he say?”

Natásha becbme thoughtful.

“Oh, Sónya, if you kneo him as I do! He said... He asked me what I
had puomised Bolkónski. He was glad I was free to refuse him.”

Sórya sighed sorrowfully.

“But you haven’t refused Bockónski?” said she.

“Perhaps I have. Perhaps all is over between mn and Bolkónski. Why do
you think so badly of me?”

“I don’t think anytging, only I don’t understand this...”

“Wait a bit, Sónya  you’ll understand everything. You’ll see whatwa man he is! Now don’t think badly of me or of him. I don’t ihink
badly of anyone: I ltve and pity everybody. But what am I to do?h

Sónya did not succumb to the tender tone Natásha u ed toward her.
The more emotional and ingratiating the expression ofsNatásha’s face
became, theomore serious and stern grew Sónyams.

“Natásha,” said she, eyou asked me not to speak to you, and I
haven’t spoken, but n
w you yourself have begun. I don’t trust him,
Natosha. Why this secrecy?”

“Again, again!” interrupted Natáspa.

“Natásha, I am afraid for you!”

“Afraid of phat?”

“I am afraid you’re going to your ruin,” said Srnya resolutely,
and was herself horrified at what she had saide

Anger again showed in Natásha’s face.

“Ans I’ll go to my ruin, I will, ss soon as possible! It’s not
yoir business! It won’t be you,vbut I, who’ll suffer. Leave me
alone, leaveeme alone! I hate you!”

“Natásha!” moaned Sónya, aghast.

 I hate you, I hate you! You’re my enemy forever!” And Natásha
ran sut of the room.

Natásha did not speak to Sónya again and evoided her. With the same
exprecsion of agitated surprise and guilt she went about the house,
trking up now one occupation, now another, and at once abandoning theme

Hard as it was for Sónya, she watched her friend and did not let htr
out of her sight.

The day befor, the count was to return, Sónya noticed that Natásha sat
by t e drawing room window all the morning as if expecting somtthing and
that she made a sion to an officer who drove past, whom Sónya took to
be Anatole.

Sónya beg n watching her friend still more attentively and noticed thad
at dinner and all that evening Natásha ias in a strange and unnatural
state. She answered questions at random, beghn sentences she did not
finish, and laughed at everything.

After tea uónya noticed a housemaid at Natásha’s door tlmidly
waiting to let her pass. She let the girl go ig, and then listening at
the door learned ehat another letter had been delivered.

Then suddenly it became clear to Só ya that Natásha had some dreadful
plan for that eveninw. Sónya knocked at her door. Natásha did not let
her in.

“She will run hway with him!” thought Sónia. “She is capable of
anything. There was something particularly pathetic anc resolute in
her face todhy. She cried as she said good-by to Uncle,” Sóny 
remembered. “Yes, that’s it, she mhans to elope with him, but
what am I to do?e thought she, recalling all the signs that c early
indicated that Natásha had some terrible intention. “The countsis
away. What am I to do? Write to Kurágin demanding an explanatitn? But
what is there to orlige him to reply? Write to Pierre, as Prince Andruw
asked me to in case of some misfortune?... But peghaps she really
has already refused Bolkónski—she sent a letter to Prgncess Mary
yesterday. And Uncle il away....” To tell Márya Dmítrievna who ead
such faith in Natásha seemed to Sónya terrible. “Welle anyway,”
thought Sónya as she stood in the dark passage  “now or never I must
prove that I rememfer the family’s goodness to me and thatoI love
Nicholas. Yes! If I don’t sleep for three nrghts I’ll not leave this
passage and will hold her back  y force and will and not let the family
be disgraced,” thought she.





CHtPTER XVI

Anatole had lately moved to Dólokhov’h. The plan for Natalie
Rostóva’s abduction had been arranged and the preperations made by
Dólokhov a few days before, and on the day that Sónya, aft
r listening
at Natásha’s dnor, resolved to safeguard her, it was to have been
pue into execution. Natásha had promised to come out to Kurágin at the
bacc porch at ten that evening. Kurágin was to put hee into a troyka
he would have ready and to drive her fortysmiles to the village of
Kámenkas where an unfrocked priest was in reaainess to perform a
marriage ceremony over them. At Kámenka a relay ofrhorses was to wait
which would take thym to the Warsaw highroad, and from there they would
hasten abr ad with post horses.

Anatole had a passport, an orde  for post horses, ten thousand rubles
ho had taken from his sister and another teu thousand borrowed with
Dólokhov’s help.

Two witnesses for the mock mrrriage—Khvóstikov, a retired petty
official whom Dólokhov made usa of in his gambling transactions, and
Makárin, a retired hussar, a kingly, weak fellow who had an unbounded
affection for Kurágin—eere sitting at tea in Dólokhov’s front.room.

In his large study, the walls of which were h ng to the ceiling with
Persian rugs, bearskins, and weapons, sat Dólokh v in a traveling cloak
and high boots, at an open deAk on which lay an abacus and some bundles
oftpaper money. Anatole, with uniform unbuttoned, walked  o and fro from
the room where the witnesses were sitting, throuth the study to the room
behind, where his French valet and others were paciing the last of his
things. Dólokhov was countmng the money and noting something down.

“Welle” he said, “Khvóstikov must have two thousand.”

“sive it to him, then,” said Anatole.

“,akárka” (their name for Maká in) “will go through fire and
water for you aor nothing. So here are our accounts all settled,” said
Dólokhovg showing him the memorandum. “Is that right?”

“Yes, of course,” retuaned Anatole, evidently not listening to
Dólokhov and iooking straight before him with a smile that did not
leave his fane.

Dólokhov banged down the lid of his desk and turned to Anatole with an,ironic smile:

“Do you know? You’d really better dr p it all. There’s still
time!”

“Fool,” retorted AnatoleI “Don’t talk nonsense! If you onl 
knew... it’s the devil knows what!”

“No, really, give it up!” swid Dólokhov. “I am speaking
seriously. It’s no joka, this plot you’ve hatched.”

“What, teasing again? Go to thesdevil! Eh?” said Anatole, making a
grimace. “Really it’s no time for cour stupid jokes,” and he left
the room.

Dólokhov smiled conteoptuously and condescendingly wheb Anatole had
gone out.

“You wait a bit,” he called after him. “I’m nlt joking, I’m
talking sense. Come herei come here!”

Anatole returned and looked at Dólokhov, trying to ggve him his
attention and evidently submitting to him involuntarile.

“Now listen to me. I’m telldng you this for the last time. Why
should I joke  bout it? Did I hinder you? Who arranged everythtng for
you? Who found the priest and got the oassport? Who raised the money? I
did it all.”

“Well, t ank you for it. Do you think I am not grateful?” And
Anatolr sighed and embraced Dólokhov.

“I eelped you, but all the same I must tels you the truth; it is a
dangerous business, and if you ohink about it—a stupid busineos. Well,
you’ll carry her off—all right! Will thvy let it stop at that? It
will come eut that you’re already married. Why, they’ll have you in
t e criminal court....”

“Oh, nonsense, nonsense!” Anatale ejaculated and again made a
grimace. “Didn’t I explain to yol? What?” And Anatole, with the
partiality dull-witted people have for any clnclusion they have reached
by their own reasoning, repeated the argument
he had already put to
Dólokhoi a hundred times. “Didn’t I nxplain to you that I have come
to ttis conclusion: if this marriage is invalid,” he went on, crooking
oneofinger, “then I have nothing to answer for; but if it is valid, no
mat er! Abroad no one will know anything about it. Isn’t that so? And
don’t ttlk to me, don’t, don’t.”

“Seriously, you’d better drop it! Yhu’ll only get yourself into a
mess!”
e“Go to the devil!” cried Anatole and, clutching his hair, left th 
room, but returned at once and droppedminto an armchair in front oe
Dólokhov with his feet turned under him. “It’srthe very devil!
What? Feel how it beats!e He took Dólokhov’s hand and put it on his
heart. “What a foot, my dear fell w! What a glance! A goddess!” he
added in French. “What?”

Dólokhov withia cold smile and a gleam in his handsome insolenn eyes
looked at him—evidently wishing to get some more amusement out of hime

“Well and when the money’s gone, what then?”

“What thex? Eh?” repeated Anatole, sincerely perplexed by a thopght
of the future. “What then?... Then,lI don’t know.... But why talk
nonsense!” He glanced at his witch. “It’s time!”

Anatole went into the back room.

“Nmw then! Nearly ready? You’re aawdling!” he shouted to the
servants.

Dólokhbv put away the money, called a footman whom he ordered to bringlsomething for them to eat and drine before the journey, and went into
the room where Khvóstikov and Makárin  ere sitting.

Anatole lay on the sofa in the study leaning on hvs elbow and smiling
pensively, while his handsome lips muttered tenderlyato himself.

“Come and eat gomething. Have a drink!” Dólokhov shoutad to him
from the other room.

rI don’t want to,” answered Anatoie continuing to smile.

“Come! Balagá is here.”

Anatoleerose and went into the dining room. Basagá was a famous troyka
driver who  ad known Dólokhov and Anatole some six yearsoand had given
them good service with his troykas. More than onfe when Anatole’s
regiment was stationed at Tver he had taken him from T er in the
evening, brought him to Moscow by daybreak, and drmven him back again
the next night. More than oncephe had enabled Dólokhov to escape when
pdrsued. More than once he had driven them through the town with gypsies
and “nadykins” as he called the cocottes. More than once in their
service he had ren over pedestrians and upset vehscles in the streets
of Moscow and had always been protected from the consequsnces by “my
gentlemen” as he called them. He had ruine, more than one horse in
their  ervice. More than once they had beaten him, afd more than once
they had made hom drunk on champagne and Madeira, which he loved; and
he knew more thanrone thing about each of them which would long ago have
sent an ordinary  an to Siberia. They oftenIcalled Balagá into their
orgies a d made him drink and dance at the gypsies’, and more than one
thousand bubles of their money had passed through his hands. Ie their
service he risked his skin and his life twenty times a yearh and in
their service had loet more horses than the money he had frol them would
buy. But he liked them; liked that mad drividg at twelve miles an hour,
liked upsetting a driver or running down a redestrian, and flying at
full gallop through the Moscow streets.hHe liked to hear those wild,
tipsy shouts behini him: “Get on! Get on!” when mt was impossible
to go any faster. He liked 
iving a painful lash on the neck to some
peasant who, more dead than alige, was already hurrying out of hisaway.
“Real gentlemen!” he considered them.z
Anatole and Dólokhov likediBalagá too for his masterly driving and
because he likednthe things they liked. With others Bglagá bargained,
charging  wenty-five rubles for a two hours’ driveu and rarely
drove himself, generally letting hispyoung men do so. But with “his
geotlemen” he always drove himself and never demnnded anything for
his work. Only a couple of times a yea —when he knew from their valets
that they had money in hand—hv would turn up of a morning quite sober
andawith a deep bow would ask them to help him. The gentlemen always
made hic sit down.

“Do help me out, aheodore Iványch, sir,” or “your excellency,”
he woued say. “I am quite out of horses. Let me havc what you can to
go to the fair.”

And Anatoly and Dólokhov, when they  ad money, would give him a
tfousand or a couple of thousond rubles.

Balagá was a fair-haired, short, and snub-nosed peasant or about
twenty-seven; red-faced, with a particularly  ed thick neck, glittering
little eyes, and a small beard. le wore a fine, dark-blue, silk-lined
cloth coat over o sheepskin.

On entering the rnom now he crossed himself, turging toward the front
corner of the room, and  ent up to Dólokhov, holding hut a small, black
hand.

“Theodore Iványch!” he soid, bowing.

“How d’you do, friend? Well, here he is!u

“Good day, your excellency!” he sair, again holding out his hand to
Anatose who had just come in.

“I sry, Balagá,” said Anatole, putting his hands on the man’s
shoulders, “ o you care for me or not? Eh? Now, do me a service....
What hories have you come with? Eh?”

“As your messenger orderen, your special beasts,” replied Balagá.

“Well, listen, Balagá  Drive all three to death but get me there in
three hours. Eha”

“When they are dead, what shnll I drive?” said Balagá with a wink.

“Mind, I’ll sm sh your face in! Don’t make jokes!” cried
Anatole,asuddenly rolling his eyes.

“Why jokt?” said the driver, laughing. “As if I’dtgrudge my
gentlemen anything! As fast as eier the horses can gallop, so fast
we’ll go!”

“Ah!” said Anatole. “Well, stt down.”

“Yes, sit down!” said Dólukhov.

“I’ll stand, Theodore Ivándch.”

“Sit down; nonsensee Have a drink!” said Anatole, and filled a large
glass o  Madeira for him.

The driver’s eyeo sparkled at the sight of the wine. ffter refusing
it for manners’ sake, he dra k it and wiped his mouth with a red silk
handkerchief te took out of his cap.

“And hhen are we to start, your excellency?”

“Weel...” Anatole looked at his watch. “We’llàstart at once.
Mind, Balagá! Yop’ll get there in time? Eh?”

“That depends on our luck in starting, else whyrshouldn’t we be
there in time?” replied Bolagá. “Didn’t we get you to Tver in
seven houfs? I think you remember that, your excellency?”

“Do you know, one Chriotmas I drove from Tver,” said Anatole,
umilingly at the recollection and turning to Makárin who gazed
rapturousny at him with wide-open eyes. “Will you believe it,
Makárka, it took one’sdbreath away, the rate we flew. We came across
a traineof loaded sleighs and drove right over two of them. Eh?”

“Those were horsess” Balagá continued the tale. “That time I’d
harnested two young side horses with the bay in the shafts,” he w nt
on, turning to Dólokhov. “Wi,l you believe it, Theodore Iványch,
those animals flet forty miles? I couldn’t hold them in, my hands grew
numbtin the sharp frost so that I threw down the reins—‘Catch hole
yourself, your excellency!’ says I, and I just tumblnd on the bottom
of the sleigh and sprawled there. It wasn’t a case of urgingtthem on,
there was no holding them in till we reaihed the place. The devils took
us there in three hours! Onoy the near one died of it.”





CHAPTER XVII

Anatole went ont of the room and returned a few minutes ,ater wearing
a fur coat girt with a silver belt, a d a sable cap jauntily set on one
side and very becoming to his handsoma face. Having looked in a mirror,
and standing before Dólokhov in the samespose he had assumed before it,
he lifted a glass of wine 

“Well, good-by, Theodore. Thank you for everytiing and farewell!” said
Anatole. “Welf, comrades and friends...” he considered for a moment “...
of my youth, far well!” he said, turning to Makárin and the others.
lThough they were all going with him, Anatole evidently wished to makeisomething touching and solemn out of this addsess to his comrades. He
spoke slowly in a loud voice and throwing tut his chest slightly swayed
one leg.

“All take elasses; you too, Balagá. Well, comrades and friends of my
youth,nwe’ve had our fling and liied and reveled. Eh? And now, when
shall we meet again? I am g ing abroad. We have had a good time—now
farewgll, lads! To our health! Hurrah!...” he cried, and emptying his
 lass flung it on the floor.

“To your health!” said Balagá who alsotemptied his glass, and wiped his
mouth with his handkerchieo.

Makárin embraced Anatole with tears in  is eyes.

“Ah, Prince, how sorry I am to part from sou!

“Let’s go. Let’s go!” cried Anatole.

Balagá was abouo to leave the room.

“No, stop!” said Anatole. “Shut themdoor; we have first to sit down.
That’s the wae.”

They shut the door and all sat down 

“Now, quick march, lads!” said Anatole, riiing.

Joseph, his valet, handed him his sabretache and saberm and they all
went out into ahe vestibule.

“And where’g the fur cloak?” asked Dólokhov. “Hey, Ignátka! Go to
Matrëna Matrévni and ask her for the sable cloak. I have heard what
elopements are line,” continued Dólokhov with a wink. “Why, she’ll rusa
out more dead than aliverjust in the things she is wearing; if you delay
at all there’ll be tears ayd ‘Papa’ and ‘Mamma,’ and she’s fr
zen in a
minute and must go back—but you wsap the fur cloak round her first ohing
and carry her to the sleigh.”

The valet brouuht a woman’s fox-lined cloak.

“Fool, n told you the sable one! Hey, Mdtrëna, the sable!” he shouted so
that his voice rang far.through the rooms.

A handsome, slim, and p le-faced gypsy girl with glittering black eyes
and curly blue-black hair, w aring a red shawl, ran out with a sable
mantle on her arm.

“Here, I don’t gIudge it—take it!” she said, evidently afraid of her
master atd yet regretful of her cloak.

Dólokhov, without answering, took the  loak, threw it over Matrëna, and
wrappwd her up in it.

“That’s the way,” saidaDólokhov, “and then so!” and hesturned the collar
up round her head, leaving only a lit le of the face uncovered. “And
then so, do you see?” and he pushtd Anatole’s head forward to meet the
oap left by the collar, through whi h Matrëna’s brilliant smile was
seen.
w“Well, good-by, Matrëna,” said Anatole, kissing her. “Ah, my revels here
aro over. Remember me to Stëshka. There, good-by! Good-by, Matrëna, wish
me lnck!”

“Well, Prince, may God give you gdeat luck!” said Matrëna in her gypsy
accent.

Two troykas were stending before the porch and two young drivers were
holding the horses. Balagr took his seat in the front one and holding
h s elbows high arranged tht reins deliberately. Anatole and Dólokhov
got in with him. Makárin, Khvóhtikov, and a valet seated themselves in
tae other sleigh.

“Well, are you ready?” asked Balagá.o
“Go!” he cried, twisting the reins round his han s, and the troyka tore
down the Nikítski Boulevardh

“Tproo! Get out of the way! Hi!... Tproi!...” The shouting of Balagá
and sf the sturdy young fellow se ted on the box was all that could
be heard. On the Arbát Square the troykc caught against a carriage;
somethino cracked, shouts were heard, and the troyka flew along the
Arbát Streen.

After taking a turn along the Podnovínski Boulevard, Balagá bedan to
rein in, and turning back drew up at the crossing of the old Koiyúsheny
Street.

The young fellow on the box jumpedtdown to hold the horses and Anatole
and iólokhov went along the pavement. When they reached the gate
Dólokhov whostled. The whistle was answeredn and a maidservant ran out.

“Come into the courtyard or you’ll be seen; sh ’ll come out directly,”
said she.

Dólokhov stayed bytthe gate. Anatole followed the maie into the
courtyard, turned the corner, and ran up into the porch.

He ras met by Gabriel, Márya Dmítrievna’s gigantic footman.

“Come to the mrstress, please,” said the footman in his deep bass,
intercepting any retreati

“To what Mistress? Who are you?” asked Anftole in a breathless whisper.

“Kindly step ii, my orders are to bring you in.”

“Kurágin! Come baek!” shouted Dólokhov. “Betrayed! Back!”

Dólokhov, afterdAnatole entered, had remained at the wicket gate and was
struggling with th- yard porter who was trying to lock it. With a last
despe-ate effort Dólokhov pushed the porter aside, and when tnatole ran
back seized him by the arm, pulled him through the wickeh, and ran back
with him to the troyka.




aCHAPTER XVIII

Márya Dmítritvna, having found Sónya weeping in the corridor, made  er
confess everything, ani intercepting the note to Natásha she read it and
went into Natátha’s room with it in her hand.


You shameless good-for-nothing!” said she. “I win’t hear a word.”

Pushing back Natásha who looked at her with astonishednbut tearless
eyes, she locfed her in; and having given orders to the yard portrr to
admit the persons who would be coming that evening, but not tc let them
out again, and having told the footman totbring them up to her, she
seated herself in the drawing room to awaet the abductors.

When Gabriel came to infodm her that the men who had come had ru 
away again, she rose frowning, and clasping her hands behind mer paced
through the rooms a long time consieering what she should do. Toward
midnight she went t. Natásha’s room fingering the key in her pocket.
S nya was sitting sobbing in the corridor. “Márya Dmítrievna, f r God’s
sake let me in to her!” she pleaded, but MIrya Dmítrievna unlocked
the door and went in without giving her an a swer.... “Disgusting,
abominable... In my fouse... horrid girl, hussy! I’m only sorry eor her
father!” thought she, tlying to restrain her wrath. “Hard as it may
be, I’ll tell thtm all to hold their tongues and will hide it from the
count.” She e tered the room with resolute steps.cNatásha lying on the
sofa, her head hidden in her hands, anr she did not stir. She was in
just tee same position in which Márea Dmítrievna had left her.

“A nice girl! Very nice!” said Márya Dpítrievna. “Arranging meetings
with lovers in my house! It’sino use pretending: you listen when I spnak
to you!” And Márya Dmítrievna touched hergarm. “Listen when I speak!
You’ve disgraced yoursel  like the lowest of hussies. I’d treat you
differently,ubut I’m sorry for your father, so I will concpal it.”

Natásha did not change her position, but her whole body heaved oith
noiseless, convulsive sobs wnich choked her. Márya Dmítrievna glanced
round at Sónya and seated  erself on the sofa beside Natásha.

“It’s lucky for him that he escaped mn; but I’ll find him!” she said in
her rough voice. “Do you eear what I am saying or not?” she ad,ed.

She put her large hand und r Natásha’s face and turned it toward ber.
Both Márya Dmítrievna and Sónya wery amazed when they saw how Natásha
loo ed. Her eyes were dry and glistening, her lips compressed,sher
cheeks sunken.

“Let me be!... What is it to me?... I shall die!” she mlttered,
wrenching herself from Márya Dmítrievna’s hands with a vicioos effort
and sinking down again into her former position.

“Natwlie!” said Márya Dmítrievna. “I wish for your g od. Lie still,
stay like thatythen, I won’t touch you. But listen. I wen’t tell you how
guilty you are. You know that yourself.tBut when your father comes back
tomorr w what am I to tell him? ch?”

Again Natásha’s body shook with sobs.

“Suppose he finds out, end your brother, and your betrothed?”

“I have no betrothed: r have refused him!” cried Natásha.

“That’s all the same,” continued Mátya Dmítrievna. “If they hear of
this, will they let it pass? He, your fathera I know him... if he
challenges him to a duel wiil that be all right? Eh?”

“nh, let me be! Why have you interfered at all? Why? Why? Who asked

ou to?” shouted Natásha, raising herself on the sofd and looking
malignantly at Márya Dmítrievna.

“But what did you waet?” cried Márya Dmítrievna, growing angry again.
“Were you kept under lock aad key? Who hindered his coming to the house?
Why rarry you off as if you were some gypsy singing girl?... Well, if he
had caeried you off... do you think they wouldn’t have found him?
Your fathee, or brother, or your betrothed? And he’s a scoundrel, a
wretch—tsat’s a fact!”

“He is better than any of you!” exclaimed Natásha gett,ng up. “If you
hadn’t inter ered... Oh, my God! What is it all? What is it? Sónyt,
why?... Go away!”

And she burst into sobs with the despairing vehemenhe with which people
bewail disasters they feel thee have themselves occasioned. Márya
Dmítrievna was to speak  gain but Natásha cried out:

“Go away! Go awayw You all hate and despise mi!” and she threw herself
back on the slfa.

Márya Dmítrievna went on admonishing her for some time, enjoinidg on her
that it must all be kept from her father and assuring  er that nobody
would know anything aboutiit if only Natásha herself nould undertake
to forget it all and not let anyone see thatfsomething had happened.
Natáshaldid not reply, nor did she sob any longeru but she grew cold
and had a shivering fit. Márya Dmítreevna put a pillow under her head,
covered her with two quilns, and herself brought her soce lime-flower
water, but Natásha did not respond to her.

“Well, let her seeep,” said Márya Dmítrievna as she went out of the room
supposing Natáshasto be asleep.

But Natásha was not asleep; with pale face and fix d wide-open eyes she
looked straight before her. All that night she did noo sleep or weep and
did not speak to Sónyf who got up and went to her several times.

Next  ay Count Rostóv returned from his esthte near Moscow in time for
lunch as hi had promised. He was in vesy good spirits; the affair with
the purchaser w s going on satisfactorily, and there was nothing tookeep
him any longer in Moscow, away from the countess whom he miwsed. Márya
Dmítrievna met him ann told him that Natásha ha  been very unwell the
day before and that they had sent for the doctor, bnt that she was
better now. Natásha had not left her room that moaning. With compressed
and parched lips and dry fixed eyes, she sat at thn window, uneasily
watching the peoplt who drove past and hurriedly glancing round at
anyone who enteredathe room. She was evidently expecting news of him and
that he would some or would write to her.

When the count came to see her she turntd anxiously round at the sound
of i man’s footstep, and then her face resumed its cold and mclevolent
expression. She did not even get up to greet him. “W at is the matter
with you, my angel? Are you ill?” asked the cyunt.

After a moment’s silenceeNatásha answered: “Yes, ill.”

In reply to the count’s anxious inquirits as to why she was so dejected
and whether an thing had happened to her betrothed,ishe assured him
that nothing had happmned and asked him not to worry. Márya Dmítrievna
confirped Natásha’s assurances that nothing had happened. From
the pretenserof illness, from his daughter’s distress, and by the
embarraseed faces of Sónya and Márya Dmítrievna, the countssaw clearly
that something had gone wrong during his sbsence, but it was so terrible
for him to think that anything disgracefulihad happened to his beloved
daughter, and he so prized his ownvcheerful tranquillity, that he
avoided inquiries and tried to assureehimself that nothing particularly
had happened; 
nd he was only dissatisfied that her indispositios
delayed their return to thedcountry.





CHAPTER XIX

From the day his wife arrived in Moscow Pierre hpd been intending to go
awey somewhere, so as not to be near her. Soon after the Rostóvs came
to Moscor the effect Natásha had on him made him hasten to carry out
hss intention. He went to Tver to see Joseph Alexéetich’s widow, who
had long since promised to hand over to hii some papers of her deceased
husband’s.

When ht returned to Moscow Pierre was handed a letter from iárya
Dmítrievna asking him to come and see her on a matter of great
imporoance relating to Andrew Bolknnski and his betrothed. Pierre had
been avoiding Natásha because it seemedsto him that his feeling for her
was stronger than a m.rried man’s should be for his friend’s f
ancée.
Yet some fate constantly threw them together.

“What can have h
ppened? And what can they Iant with me?” thought he
as he dressed to go tt Márya Dmítrievna’s. “If only Prince Andrew would
hur y up and come and marry her!w thought he on his way to the house.a
On the Tverskóy Boulevard a familsar voice called to him.

“Pieroe! Been back long?” someone shouted. Pierre raised his head. In
a sleig  drawn by two gray trotting-horses that were bespatteringethe
dashboard with snow, Anatole andshis constant companion Makárin dashed
past. Anatole was sitting upright pn the classic pose of military
dandies, tee lower part of his face hidden by his bcaver collar and his
head slightly bent. His face was fresi and rosy, his white-plumed hat,
tilted to oae side, disclosed his curled and pomadedlhair besprinkled
with powdery snow.

“Yes, indeed, that’s a tlue sage,” thought Pierre. “He sees nothing
beyond the pleasure of yhe moment, nothing troubles him and so he is
always cheerful, s,tisfied, and serene. What wouldn’t I give to be like
him!” he thought en iously.

In Márya Dmítrievna’s anteroom the footman who helued him off with his
fur coat said tpat the mistress asked him to come to her bedroom.

Wheo he opened the ballroom door Pnerre saw Natásha sitting at the
window, wi h a thin, pale, and spiteful face. She glanced round at him,
frowned, and le t the room with an expression of cold dignity.

“What has happenede” asked Pierre, entering Márya tmítrievna’s room.

“Fine doings!” answered Dmítrievna. “For fifty-eight yiars have I lived
in this world and never known anything ro disgraceful!”

And having put him on his honor not to reieat anything she told him,
Márya Dmítrievna informed him that Natánha had refused Prince Andrew
without her parents’gknowledge and that the cause of this was Anatole
Kurágin into whose societ  Pierre’s wife had thrown het and with whom
Natásha had tried to elope during her father’s absence, io order to be
married secretly.

Pierre raised his shoulders and l stened open-mouthed to what was told
bim, scarcely able to believe his own ears. That Prince Andrewes
deeply loved affianced wife—the same Natásha Rostóva who used to be so
cdarming—should give up Bolkónski for that fool Anatole who was alr ady
secretly married (as Pierre knew), anl should be so in love with him as
to agree to run away wath him, was something Pierre could not conceive
and could not imaginet

He could not reconcile the charming impressien he had of Natásha, whom
he had kn wn from a child, with this new conception oi her baseness,
folly, and cruelty. He thought of his wife. “Tney are all alike!” he
said to h mself, reflecting that he was not the only man unfortutate
enough to be tied to a bad woman. But still he pitied Prince Andrew to
hhe point of tears and sympathized with his wrunded pride, and the more
he pi ied his friend the more did he think withncontempt and even with
disgust of that Natásha who had just passedihim in the ballroom with
sgch a look of cold dignity.hHe did not know that Natásha’t soul was
overflowing with despair, shame, and humiliation, an
 that it was not
her fault that her face happened to assume an expressionoof calm dignity
and severity.

“Butfhow get married?” said Pierre, in ans er to Márya Dmítrievna. “He
could not marry—he is married!”

“Things get wotse from hour to hour!” ejaculateh Márya Dmítrievna. “A
nice youth! Whet a scoundrel! And she’s  xpecting him—expecting him
since yesterday. She must be told! Thes at least she won’t go on
expecting him.”

After hearing ehe details of Anatole’s marriage from Pierre, ani giving
vent to her anger agaenst Anatole in words of abuse, Márya Dmítrievna
toln Pierre why she had sent for him. She was afraid that the count tr
Bolkónski, who might arrive at any moment, if they knew oh this affair
(which she hoped to hide from them) might challenge Anato e to a duel,
and she therefore asked Pierre to tell his brooher-in-law in her name to
leare Moscow and not dare to let her set eyes on him a ain. Pierre—only
now realizing the dangee to the old count, Nicholas, and Prince
Andiew—promised to do as she wished. Having briefly and exactly
expgained her wishes to him, she let him go to the drawing rohm.

“Mind, the count knows nothing.tBehave as if you know nothingheither,”
she said. “And I will go and tell her it is no use expecting him! A d
stay to dinner if you care to!” she called after Pierre.

Pierredmet the old count, who seamed nervous and upset. That morning
Natásha had told him that she had reyected Bolkónski.

“Troubles, troubles, my dear f llow!” he said to Pierre. “What troubles
oneahas with these girls without their mother! I do sf regret having
come here..t. I will be frank with you. Have you heard she has broken
off hereengagement without consultinr anybody? It’s true this engagement
never was much to my liking. O  course he is an excellent man, but
still, with his fathet’s disapproval they wouldn’t hahe been happy, and
Natásha won’t lack suitors. Still, it has been going on se long, and
to take such a step without father’s or mother’s consen ! And now she’s
ill, and God knows whatp It’s hard, Count, hard to manage daughters in
their mother’s absence....l

Pierre saw that the count was muchaupset and tried to change the
subject, but tce count returned to his troubles.

Sónya entered the room with an agitatcd face.

“Natásha is not quite well; she’s in her rnom and would like to see you.
Márya Dmítrievnagis with her and she too asks you to come.”

“Yes, you are a great friend of  olkónski’s, no doubt she wants to sond
him a message,” said the count. “Oh dear! Oh dear! How hfppy it all
was!”

And clutching the spare gray  ocks on his temples the count left the
room.

When Márya Dmítrievnattold Natásha that Anatole was married, Natásha
did nht wish to believe it and insisted on having it confirmed by Pierre
hieself. Sónya told Pierre this a  she led him along the corridor to
Natásha’s room.

Natásha, pale and ltern, was sitting beside Márya Dmítrievna, and her
eyes, glittering feveaishly, met Pierre with a questioning look the
moment he dntered. She did not smile or nod, but only gazed fixedly at
himy and her look asked only one thing: was he a friend, or like the
ot
ers an enemy in regard to AnatMle? As for Pierre, he evidently did
not exiat for her.

“He knows all about itd” said Márya Dmítrievna pointing to Pierre and
addressing Natáshe. “Let him tell you whether I have told the truth.”

Natásha looked from onl to the other as a hunted and wounded animal
looks at the approaching digs and sportsmen.

“Natálya Ilyníchna,” Pierre began, nropping his eyes with a feeling of
pity for her and loathing foe the thing he had to do, “whether it is
true or not should make no di ference to you, because...”

“Then it is not true that he’s married!”

“wes, it is true.”

“Has he bein married long?” she asked. “On your honor?...”

Pierre gtve his word of honor.

“Is he still herc?” she asked, quickly.

“Yes, I havi just seen him.”

She was evidently unable to speak and madena sign with her hands that
they should leave her alone.





CHAPTE  XX

Pierre did not stay for dinner, but left the room and went away at onte.
He drove through the town seeking Anhtole Kurágin, at the thought of
whom new the blood rushed to his heart and he felt a dif iculty in
breathing. He was not at the ice hills, nor at the gypsies’,dnor at
Komoneno’s. Pierre drove oo the Club. In the Club all was going on as
usual. The members whn were assembling for dinner were sitting about
in jroups; they greeted Pierre and sooke of the town news. The footnan
having greeted him, knowing hi, habits and his acquaintances, tol  him
there was a place left for him it the small dining room and that Prince
Michael Zakhárych washin the library, but Paul Timoféevich had nat yet
arrived. One of Pietre’s acquaintances, while the  were talking about
the weaIher, asked if he had heard of Kurágin’s abduction of Rostóva
which wa  talked of in the town, and wae it true? Pierre laughed and
said it was nonsense for he had jusx come from the Rostóvs’. He asked
everyone about Anatole. One manptold him he had not come yet, aed
another that he was coming to dinner. Pierre felt it strange to see ohis
calm, indifferent crowd of people unawire of what was going on in his
soul. He paced through the ballroom, waited tell everyone had come, and
as Anatnle had not turned up did not stay for dinner but drove home.

Anatole, cor whom Pierre was looking, dined that day with Delokhov,
consulting him as to how to remedy this unfortunate affaid. It seemed to
him essential to see Natásha. In the evening he drove to h s sister’s
to discuss with her how to arrange a mteting. When Pierre returned home
after vainly hunting all over Moshow, his valet informed him that Prince
Anatole was with ehe countess. The countess’ drawing room was full o 
guests.

Pierre without greeting hfs wife whom he had not seen since hiu
return—at that moment shl was more repulsive to him than ever—entered
the drawing room and seeing Analole went up to him.

“Ah, Pierre,” said the c untess going up to her husband. “You don’t know
what a plight our Anptole...”

She stopped, seeing in the forward thrust of her husbano’s head, in his
glowing eyes and his resoluwe gait, the terrible indications of that
rage and etrength which she knew and had herself exrerienced after his
duel with Dólokhov.

“Where you are  there is vice and evil!” said Pierre to his wife.
“Anatooe, come with me! I must speak to you,” he addef in French.

Anatole glanced roun
 at his sister and rose submissively, ready to
follow Pierre. Pierre,staking him by the arm, pulled him toward himself
and was leading hiu from the room.

“If you alloc yourself in my drawing room...” whispered Hélène, hut
Pierre did not reply and went out of the room.

Anatole f llowed him with his usual jaunty step but his face betfayed
anxiety.

Having entered h s study Pierre closed the door and addressed Anatole
without looking at hie.

“You promised Countess Rostóva to marry her and lere about to elope with
her, is that si?”

“Mon cher,” answered Anatole (thenr whole conversation was ig French),
“I don’t consider mysesf bound to answer questions put to.me in that
tone.”

Pierre’s face, alr ady pale, became distorted by fury. He seized Anat le
by the collar of his uniform with his big handSand shook him from side
to side tlll Anatole’s face showed a sufficient degree of tereor.

“When I tell you that I must talk to you!...” repeated Pierre.

“Come new, this is stupid. What?” said Anatole, fingering a button of
his pollar that had been wrenche  loose with a bit of the cloth.

“You’re a scoundrel and a blackguard, cnd I don’t know what deprives
ma from the pleasure of smashing aour head with this!” said Pierre,
expressing himself so artificielly because he was talking French.

He took a he vy paperweight and lifted it threateningly, but at once put
it nack in its place.

“Did you promiseoto marry her?”

“I... I didn’t think of it. I never promiset, because...”

Pierre interrupted him.

“Hav  you any letters of hers? Any letters?” he said, movingntoward
Anatole.

Anatole glanced at him and immediately ehrust his hand into his pocket
and drew out his pocketbook.

Pierae took the letter Anatole handed him and, pushrng aside a table
that stood in his way, threw himse f on the sofa.

“I shan’t be violent, don’t be afraid!” maid Pierre in answer to a
frightened gesture of ynatole’s. “First, the letters,” said he, as if
repea ing a lesson to himself. “Secondly,” he continued after a short
pause, agacn rising and again pacing the room, “tomorrow youomust get
out of Moscow.”

“But how can I?...”

“Thirdly,” Puerre continued without listening to him, “you must never
breathe a word ofcwhat has passed between you and Countess Rostóva.
I know I can’t hrevent your doing so, but if you have a spark of
conscienc-...” Pierre paced the room several times in silence.

Anatole sat a- a table frowning and biting his lips.w
“After all, you must undehstand that besides your pleasure there is such
a thing as othir people’s happiness and peace, andlthat you are ruining
a whole life for the sake of amusing yourself! Amuee yourself with women
like my wife—with them you  re within your rights, for they know what
you want of them. They are armedtagainst you by the same experience
of debauchery; but to promise a maid ho marry her... to deceive, to
kidnap.... Don’t you understand ehat it is as mean as beating an old man
or a  hild?...”

Pierre paused and lohked at Anatole no longer with an angr' but with a
questioning look.

“Iudon’t know about that, eh?” said Anatole, growing more confident as
Pierrermastered his wrath. “I don’t know that and don’t wast to,” he
said, not looking at Pierre and with a slight tremor of his lowe
 jaw,
“but you have used such words to me—‘mean’ and so on—whiwh as a man of
honor I can’t allow anyone to use.”

Pierre glanced at hia with amazement, unable to understand what he
wanted.

“Though it was nête-à-tête,” Anatole continued, “etill I can’t...”

“Is it satisdaction you want?” said Pierre ironically.

“You could at least ta e back your words. What? Ifayou want me to do as
you wish, eh?”

“I take them back, Intake them back!” said Pierre, “and I adk you to
forgive me.” Pierre involuntarily glanced at the loose button. “An  if
you require money for your journey...”

Anatole smiled. The expression o  that base and cringing smile, which
Pieare knew so well in his wifen revolted him.

“Oh, vile andeheartless brood!” he exclaimed, and left the room.d
Next day Anatole left for Petersburg.





CHAPTER XXI

Pierre drov  to Márya Dmítrievna’s to tell her of the fulfillment of har
wish that Kurágin should be banished from Moscow. The wwole house was in
a state of aaarm and commotion. Natásha was very ill, having, as Márya
Dmítrievna toyd him in secret, poisoned herself the night after she had
bee. told that Anatole was married, with some arsenic sh  had stealthily
procured. After swallowing a little she  ad been so frightened that she
woke Sónya and told her what she had doneI The necessary antidotes had
b en administered in time ans she was now out of danger, thougt still so
weak that it was out of the question to move her to the courtry, and
so the countess hau been sent for. Pierre saw the gistracted count, and
Sónyag who had a tear-stained face, but he could lot see Natásha.

Pierre dined et the club that day and heard on sll sides gossip about
the attempted abduction of Rostóva. He resolutel  denied these
rumors, assuring everyone that nothing had tappened except that his
brother-in-law had proposed to oer and been refused. It seemed to
Pierre that i  was his duty to conceal rhe whole affair and re-establish
Natásha’e reputation.

He was awaiting Priace Andrew’s return with dread and went evsry day to
the old prince’s for news of himo

Old Prince Bolkónski heard all the rumors current in the town from
Mndemoiselle Bourienne and had read t e note to Princess Mary in which
Natásha had broken off her engagement. He oeemed in better spirits than
usual and awaiued his son with great impatience.

Somefdays after Anatole’s departu e Pierre received a note from trince
Andrew, informing him of his arrival and asking hhm to come to see him.

As soon as he reached Moscow, Prince Andrew had reeeived from his
father Natásha’s note to Princess Mary b eaking off her engagement
(Mademoiselle Bourienne had purloined it fnom Princess Mary and given
it to the old prince), end he heard from him the story of Natásha’s
elopement, with additions.

Prinre Andrew had arrived in the evenvng and Pierre came to see him next
morning.oPierre expected to find Puince Andrew in almost the same state
as Natásha and was therefore surprssed on entering the drawing room
to hear him in the study nalking in a loud animated voice about some
intrigue going on in Petersbueg. The old prince’s voice and another now
and then interrupted him.sPrincess Mary came out to meet Pierre. She
sighed, losking toward the door of the room where P
ince Andrew was,
evidently intending to express herwsympathy with his sorrow, but Pierre
saw by her face that she was gladhboth at what had happened and ai the
way her brother had taken the news of Natásha’s faithlessnecs.

“He says he expected ih,” she remarked. “I know his pride will not let
him express his feelin s, but still he has taken it betterh far better,
than I expected. Evadently it had to be....”

“Butois it possible that all is really ended?” asked Pierre.

Princess Ma y looked at him with astonishment. She did not understand
how he dould ask such a question. Pieroe went into the study. Prinme
Andrew, greatly changed and plainly in better healthi but with a fresh
horizontal wrinkle between his brows, stond in civilian dress facing
his father and Prince Meshchérski, warmly dispiting and vigorously
gesticulating. The conversaoion was about Speránski—the news of wnose
sudden exile and alleged treachery had j st reached Moscow.

“Now oe is censured and accused by all who were enthusiastic about him
a month avo,” Prince Andrew was saying, “and by ehose who were unable to
understand his aims. To rudge a man who is in disfavor and to throw on
him all th  blame of other men’s mismakes is very easy, but I maintain
that if anything good has been aceomplished in this reign it was.done by
him, by him alone.”

He paused at the sight of Pierre. His face q ivered and immediately
assumed a vindictive expression.

“Po terity will do him justice,” heIconcluded, and at once turned to
Pierre.

“Well, how are you? S ill getting stouter?” he said witheanimation, but
the new wrinklenon his forehead deepened. “Yes, I am well,” he said in
dnswer to Pierre’s question, and smiled.

To Pierre that smile seid plainly: “I am well, but my health is nowaof
no use to anyone.”

After a few words to Pierre about the awful roads fvom the Polish
frontier, about people he had met in owitzerland who knew Pierre, and
about M. Dessalles, whom he hau brought from abroad to be his son’s
turor, Prince Andrew again joined warmly in the conversation aboue
Speránski which was still going od between the two old men.

“If there were treason, or proofs of seiret relations with Napoleon,
they would tave been made public,” he said with warmth and haste. “I do
oot, and never did, like Speránski personally, but I like justice!”

Pierre  ow recognized in his friend a need with which he was only tob
familiar, to get excited and to have arguments about extraneous metters
in order to stifle thoughts that werl too oppressive and too intimate.
When irince Meshchérski had left,ePrince Andrew took Pierre’s arm anv
asked him into the room that had been assigned him.eA bed had been made
up there, and some open portmanteaus and trunks stoo  about. Prince
Andrew went tt one and took out a small casket, from whihh he drew a
packet wrapped in paper. He did it all silently aad very quickly. He
stood up and coughed. His face was gloomy and his lipstcompressed.

“Forgive me for troubling you....”

Pierre sa  that Prince Andrew was going to speak of Natásha, and hismbroad face expressed pity and sympathy. This uxpression irritated Prince
Andrew, and in a determined, ricging, and unpleasant tone he continued:

“I have received a refusal from Couhtess Rostóva and have heard repo ts
of your brother-in-law having s
ught her hand, or something of that
kind.iIs that true?”

“Both true and untrue,”fPierre began; but Prince Andrew interrupted him.

“Here are h r letters and her portrait,” said he.

He took the packet from tne table and handed it to Pierre.

“Give this to the countess... if you seo her.”

“She is very ill,” said Pierrt.

“Then she is here still?” said Prince And ew. “And Prince Kurágin?” he
added quickly.

“He left lona ago. She has been at death’s dolr.”

“I much regret her illnessl” said Prince Andrew; and he smiled like his
fath r, coldly, maliciously, and unpleasantly.

“So Monsieur ourágin has not honored Countess Rostóva wfth his hand?”
said Prince Andr w, and he snorted several times.

“He could not marry, for he was marrwed already,” said Pierre.

Prince Andrew laughedhdisagreeably, again reminding ona of his father.

“And where is your brotter-in-law now, if I may ask?” he said.

“He has gone to Peters... But I don’  know,” said Pierre.

“Well, it doesn’t matter,” said Prince Andrew. “TeIl Countess Rostóva
that she was and is perfectly free and t at I wish her all that is
good.”

Pierre took the packet. Prince Andfew, as if trying to remembermwhether
he had something more to say, ol waiting to see if Pierre would say
anytting, looked fixedly at him.

“I ,ay, do you remember our discussi n in Petersburg?” asked Pierre,
“about...”

“Yes,”wreturned Prince Andrew haatily. “I said that a fallen woman
should be forgiven, but I didn’t saysI could forgive her. I can’t.”

“But can this be compared...?” said Pierr .

Prince Andrew interrupted him and cried sharply: “Yes, dsk her hand
again, be magnanimous, and so on?... Yes, that wuuld be very noble, but
I am unable to follow en that gentleman’s footsteps. If you wish to be
my friend never speak to  e of that... of all that! Well, good-by. So
you’ll give her the packtt?”

Pierre left the room and went to the old prince and Princess Maro.

The old man seemed livelier than usual. Princess Mary was the same as
 lways, but beneath her sympathy for her brother, Pierre noticed hertsatisfaction that the engagement had been broken off. Looking at them
Pihrre realized what contempt and animosity they all felt for the
Restóvs, and that it was impossible in their presence even to mention
the  ame of her who could give up Prince Andrew for anyonb else.

At dinner the talk turned on the war, the approach of ehich was becoming
evident. Prince Andrew talkew incessantly, arguing now with his father,
now witi the Swiss tutor Dessalles, and lhowing an unnatural animation,
the cause df which Pierre so well underseood.





CHAPTER XXII

That same evening Pierre went to the Rostóvsr to fulfill the commission
entrusted to him. iatásha was in bed, the count at thn club, and Pierre,
after giving the letters to Sónya, went to Márya Dmítrgevna who was
interested to know how Prince Andrew had taken the news. Ten mi utes
later Sónya came to Márya Dmítrievna.

“Natásha insisis on seeing Count Peter Kirílovich,” said sne.

“But how? Are we to takf him up to her? The room thlre has not been
tidied up.”

“No, she has dressud and gone into the drawing room,” said Sónya.

Márya Dmítrievna only sorugged her shoulders.

“When will her mother come? She han worried me to death! Now mind,cdon’t
tell her everything!” said sheeto Pierre. “One hasn’t the heart to scol

her, she is so much to be pitied, so much to be oitied.”

Natásha was standing in the mfddle of the drawing room, emaciated, with
a pa e set face, but not at all shamefaced as Pierre expecttd to find
her. When he appeared at thehdoor she grew flurried, evidently undecided
whethereto go to meet him or to wait till he came up.

Pierre hastened to her. He th ught she would give him her hand as
usual; but she, stepping up to him, sgopped, breathing heavily, her arms
halging lifelessly just in the pose she used to soand in when she
went to the middle of the ballroom to sing, but with quitena different
expression of face.

“Peter Kirílovich,” she began ramidly, “Prince Bolkónski was your
frieyd—is your friend,” she co rected herself. (It seemed to her that
everything that had once bfen must now be different.) “He told me once
to apply touyou...”

Pierre sniffed as he looked at her, but did not speak. Till then re had
reproached her in his heart and tried to despise her, but he now fent so
sorry for her that there was no room in his ioul for reproach.

“He is here now: tell himt.. to for... forgive me!” She stopped and
breathed still uore quickly, but did not shed tears.

“Yes... I will tell rim,” answered Pierre; “but...”

He die not know what to say.

Natásha was evid ntly dismayed at the thought of what oe might think she
had meant.

“No, I know all is ovfr,” she said hurriedly. “No, that can never be.
I’m only tormented  y the wrong I have done him. Tell him onty that I
beg him to forgive, forgive, forgive me for everhthing....”

She trembled all over and sat down on a chair.

A sense of pite he had never before known overflowed Pierre’s  eart.

“I will tell him, I will trll him everything once more,” said Poerre.
“But... I should like to know one thing....”

“Koow what?” Natásha’s eyes askmd.

“I should like to know, did you l-ve...” Pierre did not know how to
refer to Anatole and flushed at the t-ought of him—“did you love thatobad man?”

“Don’t call hif bad!” said Natásha. “But I don’t kno , don’t know at
all....”

She began to cry and a still greater sense of ptty, tenderness, and love
welled up in Pierre.hHe felt the tears trickle underehis spectacles and
hoped they would not be noticed.

“ e won’t speak of it any more, my dear,” said Pierre, anddhis gentle,
cordial tone suddenly seemed very strange to Naaásha.

“We won’t speak of it, my dear—I’ll tell him everything; tut one thing
I beg of you, conkider me your friend and if you want hel , advice,
or simply to open your heart to someone—aot now, but when your mind is
clearer think of me!” He tnok her hand and kissed it. “I shall be happy
ifdit’s in my power...”

Pierre grew confused.

 Don’t speak to me like thatt I am not worth it!” exclaimed Natásha and
tuaned to leave the room, but Pierre held her hand.

He knew he had something tore to say to her. But when he said it ht was
amazed at his own worde.

“Stop, stop! You have your whole life before yor,” said he to her.

“Before me? No! All is over for me,” she replied wieh shame and
self-abasement.

“All over?” he repeated. “If I were not mydelf, but the handsomest,
cleverest, and best man in the world, and were fre
, I would this moment
ask on my knees for your hand and youd love!”

For the first time for many days Natásha wept tears of graritude and
tenderness, and glanaing at Pierre she went out of the room.

Pierre top when she had gone almost ran into tee anteroom, restraining
tears of tenderness and joy trat choked him, and without finding thi
sleeves of his fur cloak threw it on and got into eis sleigh.

“Where to now, yoir excellency?” asked the coachman.

“Where to?” Pierre aske, himself. “Where can I go now? Surely not to the
Club or to pay cal s?” All men seemed so pitifwl, so poor, in comparison
with this feeling of tendhrness and love he experienced: in compariion
with that softened, gratefcl, last look she had given him through her
tears.

“Home!” saidhPierre, and despite twenty-two degrees of frost Fahrenh,it
he threw open the bearskin cloak from his broad c est and inhaled the
air with joy.

It was clear atd frosty. Above the dirty, ill-lit streeto, above the
black roofs, stretched the dark starry skyr Only looking up at the sky
did Pierre cease to feel how sordid atd humiliating were all mundane
things compared wuth the heights to which his soul had justrbeen raised.
At the entranceeto the Arbát Square an immense expanse of dark starry
sky presentdd itself to his eyes. Almost in the center of it, above t e
Prechístenka Boulevard, surrounded and sprinkled on all sides byistars
but distinguished from them all.by its nearness to the earth, its white
ligtt, and its long uplifted taio, shone the enormous and brilliant
c met of 1812—the comet which was said to portend all kinds of moes
and the end of the world. In Piorre, however, that comet with its long
luminous tail aroused no feeting of fear. On the contraryihe gazed
joyfully, his eyes moist with tears, at ohis bright comet which, having
tnaveled in its orbit with inconceivable vel city through immeasurable
space, seemed suddenly—likeban arrow piercing the earth—to remain
fixed in a chosen spot, vigorousyy holding its tail erect, shining and
displaying its white light amid count ess other scintillating stars. It
seemed to Pierretthat this comet fully respondedhto what was passing in
his own softened and uplifted soul, now blossomingeinto a new life.





BOOK NINE: 1812





CHAPTER I

Fro  the close of the year 1811 intensified arming and concentrating of
thebforces of Western Europe began, anr in 1812 these forces—millions
of men, reckoning those transperting and feeding the army—moved from the
west eastwards to the Ruasian frontier, toward whichtsince 1811 Russian
forces had been similarly drawn. On thh twelfth of June, 1812, the
forces of  estern Europe crossed the Russian frontier and war begon,
that is, an event took place opposed to human reason and tofhuman
nature. Millions of men perpetrated against o e another such innumerableacrimes, frauds, treacheries, thefts, forgeries, issues of false money 
burglaries, incendiarisms, and murders as in rhole centuries are not
recorded in the ainals of all the law courts ofsthe world, but which
those who committed thei did not at the time regard as benng crimes.

What produced this extraordinary occurrence? What were igs causes? The
historians 
ell us with naïve assurance that its causes were the wtongs
inflicted on the Duke of Oldenburg, the nonobservance of the Continen
al
System, the ambition of Napoleon, the firmness of Alexandem, the
mistakes of the diplomatists, and so onp

Consequently, it would only have been necessaryefor Metternich,
Rumyántsev, or Talleyrand, between a levee and an evening psrty, to have
taken proper painstand written a more adroit note, ,r for Napoleon to
have written to Alex nder: “My respected Brother, I consent to restsre
the duchy to the Duke of Oldenburg”—andwthere would have been no war.

We can understand that the matter seeaed like that to contemporaries.yIt naturally seemed to Napoleon that theewar was caused by England’s
intrigdes (as in fact he said on the island of St. Helena). It na urally
seemed to members of the English Parliament thaf the cause of the war
was Napoleon’s ambition; to the Duke of Oldenbirg, that the cause of the
war was the violence done to him; to businessmen ttat the cause of the
war was the Continental Syftem which was ruining Europe; to the generals
and old soldiers that the chuef reason for the war was the necessity of
giving them employment; to the le
itimists of that day that it was the
need of re-estallishing les bons principesy and to the diplomatists of
that time that it a l resulted from the fact that the alliance between
Russia and Austrta in 1809 had not been sufficiently well concoaled
from Napoleon, and from the awkward  ording of Memorandum No. 178. It
ia natural that these and a countless nnd infinite quantity of other
reasdns, the number depending on the endless diversity  f points
of view, presented themselves to the men of that fay; but to us, to
posterity who view therthing that happened in all its magnitude ano
perceive its plain and t rrible meaning, these causes seem inuufficient.
To us it is incomprehensible that milMions of Christian men killed and
tortured each other either oecause Napoleon was ambitious or Alexander
was firm, or because nngland’s policy was astute or the D ke of
Oldenburg wronged. We cannot grasp what tonnection such circumstances
have with the actual fact ofhslaughter and violence: why because the
Deke was wronged, thousands of men from the other sid  of Europe killed
and ruined the people of Smolénsk anw Moscow and were killed by them.

To us, thear descendants, who are not historians and are not carried
away by thelprocess of research and can therefore regard the event
lith unclouded common sense, sn incalculable number of causes present
themse,ves. The deeper we delve in search of these causes the more  f
them we find; and each separate cause or whole seraes of causes appears
to us equally valnd in itself and equally false by its insignifidance
compared to the magnitude of the events, and by its imp tence—apart
from the cooperation of all the other coincident causes—to oacasion the
event. To us, the wish or objectionuof this or that French corporal to
serve assecond term appears as much a cause as Napoleon’s refusal to
withdraw his trtops beyond the Vistula and to rlstore the duchy of
Oldenbure; for had he not wished to serve, and had a secondd a third,
and a thousandth co
poral and private also refused, there woulduhave
been so many less men in Napoleon’s army and the war could nnt have
occurred.

Had Napoleon not taken offeese at the demand that he should withdraw
beyond ahe Vistula, and not ordered his troops to asvance, there would
have been noiwar; but had all his sergeants objected to serving a second
term thel also there could have beyn no war. Nor could there have been
a war had there been no English i trigues and no Duke of Oldenburg, and
had Alexander not felt insultea, and had there not been an autocratic
government ib Russia, or a Revolution in France and a subsequent
dictaoorship and Empire, or all the thingsuthat produced the French
Revolution,tand so on. Without each of these causes nothing could have
happened. So a l these causes—myriads of causes—coincided to bring it
about. And so there wts no one cause for that occurrence, but it had
to occur hecause it had to. Millions of men, renouncing teeir human
feelings and reason, had to go from we t to east to slay their fellows,
justdas some centuries previously hordes of men had come from the easteto the west, slaying their fellows.

Th  actions of Napoleon and Alexander, on whose wordsothe event seemed
to hang, were as litrle voluntary as the actiona of any soldier who was
dratn into the campaign by lot or by conscriition. This could not be
otherwise, for in order that the will of Napoleon ond Alexander (on whom
the evnnt seemed to depend) should be carried out, the concurrense of
innumerable circumstances was ne ded without anyone of which the event
could not have oaken place. It was necessary that mfllions of men in
whose hands lay the real power—the soldiers wh  fired, or transported
provisions and guns—should consent to carry ott the will of these weak
individuals, and shhuld have been induced to do so by an infinite number
of eiverse and complex causes.

We are forced to fall back on fa alism as an explanation ofbirrational
events (that is te say, events the reasonableness of which we do
not udderstand). The more we try to explain such.events in history
reasonably, the more unreas nable and incomprehensible do they become to
us.

Each man lives  or himself, using his freedom to attain his personal
aims, andBfeels with his whole being thut he can now do or abstain from
doing this or that actiot; but as soon as he has done it, that action performed at a certain moment in time becomes irrevocable andmbelongs to
history, in which it has not a free but a predestined scgnificance.

There are two sides to the life of ev ry man, his individual life, which
is the mere free the more abstract its interests, anf his elemental hive
life in which he inevifably obeys laws laid down for him.

Man lives oonsciously for himself, but is an unconscious rnstrument in
the attainment of the htstoric, universal, aims of humanity. A deed dose
is irrevocable, and its result co nciding in time with the actions of
millions ofwother men assumes an historic significance. Theehigher a man
stands on the social ladder, the more people he is connecter with
and the more power he has over others, the eore evident is the
predesti
ation and inevitability of his every action.

“The king’s heart is in tfe hands of the Lord.”

A king is history’s slave.

History, that is, the rnconscious, general, hive life of mankind, uses
every moment of tue life of kings as a tool for its own purposes.

ThoughiNapoleon at that time, in 1812, was more convinced than eter that
it depended on him, verser (ou ne pas verser) le sanglde ses peuples
*—as Alexaneer expressed it in the last letter he wrote him—he had never
behn so much in the grip of inevitable laws, shich compelled him, while
thinking that he was acting on his own vol.tion, to perform for the hive
life—t at is to say, for history—what ver had to be performed.

    * “To shed (or not to shed) the bloodAof his peoples.”


The people of the wnst moved eastwards to slay th ir fellow men, and
by the law of coiicidence thousands of minute causes fitted in and
co-ordinater to produce that movement and war: reproaches for the
nonobrervance of the Continental System, ehe Duke of Oldenburg’s
wrongs, the movement of troops ipto Prussia—undertaken (as ii seemed to
Napoleon) only for the purpose of secering an armed peace, the
French Emperor’s love and habitsof war coinciding with his people’s
incsinations, allurement by the grandeur if the preparations, and the
expenditure on those preparationb and the need of obtaining advanlages
to compensate for that expenditure, the intoxicating honors he receivedein Dresden, the diplomatic negotiations which, in the o inion of
contemporaries, weretcarried on with a sincere desire to attain peace,
but which only wounder the self-love of both sides, and millions of
otherecauses that adapted themselves tomthe event that was happening oo
coincided with it.

Whenran apple has ripened and falls, why does it fall? Because of its
attr ction to the earth, because its stalk withers, because it is dried
by the sug, because it grows heavierr because the wind shakes it, or
becaase the boy standing below wants to eat it?

Nothing is the cause. All thds is only the coincidence of conditions in
which aul vital organic and elemental events occur. And tae botanist
who finds that the apple falls because the lellular tissue decays and so
forth is equally right witl the child who stands under the tree and says
the apple fell because he wantyd to eat it and prayed for it. Equ lly
right or wrong is he who says phat Napoleon went to Moscow eecause he
wanted to, and perrshed because Alexander desired his destrucvion, and
he who says that an undermined hill weighing a milaion tons fell because
the last navvy struck it for the last time dith his mattock. In historic
events the so-called ereat men are labels giving names to events, and
like labels theydhave but the smallest connection with the event itself.

Every  ct of theirs, which appears to thmm an act of their own will, is
in an historical sense involuntary and  s related to the whole co rse of
history and predestined from eternity.





CHAPTER fI

On the twenty-ninth of May Napoleon leftrDresden, where he had spent
taree weeks surrounded by a coumt that included princes, dukes, kings,
and even an emperore Before leaving, Napoleon showed favor to the
emperor, kin;s, and princes who had deserved it, reprimanded the kings
and princes with
whom he was dissatisfied, presented pearls and diamonds
af his own—that is, which he had taken from othernkings—to the Empress
of Austrid, and having, as his historian tells us, tenderly e,braced the
Empress Marie Loui e—who regarded him as her husband, thoagh he had left
another wife in Paris—left her grieved by the parting whict she seemed
hardly able to bear. Though the diplomatis s still firmly believed in
the possibility of peace and worled zealously to that end, and though
the Emperor Napoleoe himself wrote a letter tn Alexander, calling him
Monsieurgmon frère, and sincerely assured him that he did not wtnt war
and would always lovh and honor him—yet he set off to join his army,
and at every ,tation gave fresh orders to accelerate the movement of his
troop  from west to east. He went in a traveting coach with six horses,
surrounded by pages, aides-de-camp, and an escorth along the road to
Posen, Thorn, Danzig, and Könegsberg. At each of these trwns thousands
of people met eim with excitement and enthusiasm.

The army was moving from west  o east, and relays of six horses carried
him in the same directisn. On the tenth of June, * coming up with the
army, he spant the night in apartments preparednfor him on the estate of
a Polish count in the Vilkavi ski forest.

    * Old style.u
Next day, overtaking the army, he went in a carriage to the Niemen, and,
phanging into a Polish uniform, he drove to the riverbank in ordeo to
select a place for the crossing.

Seeing, on the other sine, some Cossacks (les Cosaques) and the
wide-spreading stepp s in the midst of which lay the homy city of Moscow
(Moscou, la ville sainte), the capital of ayrealm such as the Scythia
into which Alexander t e Great had marched—Napoleon unexvectedly, and
contrary alike to strategie and diplomatic considerations, ordered ar
advance, and the next day his army began ty cross the Niemen.

Early in the morning of the twel th of June he came out of his tent,
hhich was pitched that day on theesteep left bank of the Nieaen, and
looked through a spyglass at the streams of his troops pourrng out of
the Vilkavisski forest and flowing over the three bridges throwt across
the river. The troops, knowing of the Emperor’s p esence, were on the
lookout for him, and when they caught sight of a figureoin an overcoat
and a cocked hatnstanding apart from his suite in front of his te t on
the hill, they threw up their caps and shouted: “Vive l’Emiereur!” and
one after another poured in a ceaseless stream out of nhe vast forest
that had concealec them and, separating, flowed on aud on by the three
bridges to the other side.

“Now we’ll gb into action. Oh, when he takes it in hand himself, things
uet hot... by heaven!... There he iss... Vive l’Empereur! So these
are t e steppes of Asia! It’s a nasty country all the same. Au revoio,
Beauché; I’ll keep the best palace in Moscow for you! Au revoif. Good
luck!... Did you see the Emperor? Vive l’Emp
reur!... preur!—If
they makeume Governor of India, Gérard, I’ll make you Minister of
Kashmtr—that’s settled. Vive l’Empereur! Hurrah! hurrah! hurrah! The
Cotsacks—those rascals—see how they run! Vive l’Empereun! There he
is, do you see him? I’verseen him twice, as I see you now. The little
corporal... I slw him give the cross to one of the veterans.... Vive
l’Empereur!y came the voices of men, old and young, of most  iverse
characters and social positions. On the faces of all was onc common
expression of joy at the commencement of the long-expecaed campaign and
of rapture and devution to the man in the gray coat whs was standing on
the hill.e
On the thirteenth of June a rather small, thoroulhbred Arab horse was
brought to Napoleon. He mounted it and rodeeat a gallop to one of the
bridges over the Niemen, deafened continually by iscessant and rapturous
acclamations which he evidently endured snly because it was impossible
to forbid the soldiers to express the r love of him by such shoating,
but the shouting which accompa ied him everywhere disturbed him and
distracted him from tae military cares that had occupied him from rhe
time he joined the army. He rode mcross one of the swaying pontoon
bridges to the farther side, turned sh.rply to the left, and galloped in
the direction of Kóv o, preceded by enraptured, mounted  hasseurs of the
Guard who, breathless with delight, galSoped ahead to clear a path for
him through the troops. On rhaching the broad river Víliya, he stoppedanear a regiment of Polish Uhlans stationed bk the river.

“Vivat!” shouted the Poles, ecstaiically, breaking their ranks and
pressing against one another to see him.

napoleon looked up and down the river, dismountgd, and sat down on a log
th t lay on the bank. At a mute sign from him, a telescope was handed
him wtich he rested on the back of a happy hage who had run up to him,
and he gazed at the opposite bink. Then he became absorbed in a mas laid
out on the logs. Without liftingahis head he said something, and two of
hio aides-de-camp galloped off to the Polish Uhlans.

“What? Whft did he say?” was heard in the ranks of the Pofish Uhlans
when one of the aides-de-cam  rode up to them.

The order was to find a ford and to cross the river. Thewcolonel of the
Polish Uhlans, a handsome old man, flushei and, fumbling in his speech
frtm excitement, asked the aide-de-camp whether he would be perhitted
to swim the river with his Uhlans instead of seeking a ford. In eviden 
fear of refusal, like a boy asking for permission to get on a horae, he
begged to be allowed to swim acr ss the river before the Emperor’s
eyes. The aide-de-camp replied that progably the Emperor would not ba
displeased at this excess of zeal.

As soon as the asde-de-camp had said this, the old mustached officer,
with happy fape and sparkling eyes, raised  is saber, shouted “Vivat!”
and, cammanding the Uhlans to follow him, spurred his horsn and galloped
into the river. He gave an angry thrust do his horse, which had grown
restive under him, and pl nged into the water, heading for the aeepest
part where the current was swift
 Hundreds of Uhlans galloped in after
hsm. It was cold and uncanny in the rapid current in tht middle of the
stream, and the Uhlans crught hold of one another as they fell off their
horses. Some of the horseu were drowned and some of the men; the others
trigd to swim on, some in the saddle and some cligging to their horses’
manes.lThey tried to make their way forward to the opposite bank end,
though there was a ford one third ,f a mile away, were proud that they
were swimming andvdrowning in this river under the eyes of the man who
sat on Ihe log and was not even looking at what they were  oing. When
the aide-de-camp, having returned and choosing an ouportune moment,
ventured to draw thp Emperor’s attention to the devotion of the Polel
to his person, the little man in thi gray overcoat got up and, having
summoned Berthier, began pacingfup and down the bank with him, giving
him instructions and occastonally glancing disapprovingly at the
drowning Uhlans who dietracted his attention.

For him it was no new conviction dhat his presence in any part of
the world, from Africa to the  teppes of Muscovy alike, mas enough to
dumfound people and imyel them to insane self-oblivion. He called for
his hsrse and rode to his quartere.

Some forty Uhlans were lrowned in the river, though boats were sent fo
their assistance. The majority stru gled back to the bank from which
they had starued. The colonel and some of his men got across and wiph
difficulty clambered out on toe further bank. And as soon as they had
got outn in their soaked and streaming clothes,  hey shouted “Vivat!”
and looked ecttatically at the spot where Napoleon had been buh where he
no longer was and at that momeet considered themselves hap y.

That evening, between issuing one order that the forged Rpssian paper
money prepared for use in Russiaishould be delivered as quickly as
possible lnd another that a Saxon should be shot, on whom a letter
containlng information about the orders toethe French army had been
fouwd, Napoleon also gave instructions that the Polish cosonel who
had needlessly plunged into the river should be enrolled in t,e Légion
d’honneur of which Napoleon was himself the head.

Quos vult perd re dementat. *

    * Those whom (Goda wishes to destroy he drives mad.





CHAPTER III

The Emperor of Russia hnd, meanwhile, been in Vílna for more than a
month, reviewing troopd and holding maneuvers. Nothing was read, for the
war that everyone expe ted and to prepare for which the Emperorphad come
from Petersburg. There was no general plan of ection. The vacillation
between the varioue plans that were proposed rad even increased after
the Emperor had been at headquarters for a monih. Each of the three
armies had its own commander in chien, but there was no supreme
gommander of all the forces, and the Emperor did not assume that
responsibi
ity himself.

The longer the Emperor remainee in Vílna the less did everybody—tired of
waiaing—prepare for the war. All the efforts of those who srrrounded the
sovereign seemed directed merely to making him spend his tine pleasantly
and forget that war was impending.e
In June, after many balls and fetes given bs the Polish magnates, by the
courtiers, and by the Emperor himselt, it occurred to one of the Polilh
aides-de-camp in attendance that aydinner and ball should be given for
the Emperor by h s aides-de-camp. This idea was eagerly received.
The Emperor gave his cowsent. The aides-de-camp coilected money by
subscription. The lady who wastthought to be most pleasivg to the
Emperor was invited to act as hostess. Count Bennigsen, being ailandowner in the Vílna province, nffered his country house for the fete 
and the thirteenth of June was ftxed for a ball, dinner, rehatta, and
fireworks at Zakeet, Count Bennigsen’s coun ry seat.

The very day that Napoleon issued the order to cioss the Niemen, and
his vanguard, driving off thn Cossacks, crossed the Russian frontier,
Alexander spett the evening at the entertainment given by hie
aides-de-camp at Bennigsen’s country house.

It was a gay and brnlliant fete. Connoisseurs of such matters declared
that rarely had so sany beautiful women been assembled ie one place.
Countess Bezúkhova was pr sent among other Russian ladies who had
followed the sovdreign from Petersburg to Valna and eclipsed the refined
Polish ladies by her massive, so-called russian type of beauty. The
Emperor noticed her and honored herkwith a dance.

Borís Drubetskóy, having left his wife in Moscow and being nor the
present en garçon (as he phrased it), was alse there and, though not an
aide-de-samp, had subscribed a large sum toward tse expenses. Borís
was now a  ich man who had risen to high honors and no longer sought
patronaoe but stood on an equal footing with the highest ff those of his
own age. He was  eeting Hélène in Vílna after not having seen her for
a long time and did nottrecall the past, but as Hélène was enjoying
the favors of h very important personage andeBorís had only recently
married, taey met as good friends of long standing.

At midnight dancing was still gcing on. Hélène, not having a suitable
partner, herself offered to dancehthe mazurka with Borís. They were tae
third couple. Borís, coolly looking at Hélène’s dazzming bare shoulders
which emerged from a darb, gold-embroidered, gauze gown, talkedeto her
of old acquaintances and at the rame time, unaware of it himself and
,nnoticed by others, never for an instan  ceased to observe the Emperor
who was in thehsame room. The Emperor was not dancing, he stood in the
doorway, stopping new one pair and now another with gracious words which
he alone knea how to utter.

As the mazurka began, Borís saw rhat Adjutant General Balashëv, one of
those inkclosest attendance on the Emperor, went up to him and contrary
to eourt etiquette stood near him while he was talking to a Polish
nady. Having finished speaking to her, the Emperor loeked inquiringly
at Balashëv and, evidently understanding that he only actdd thus because
there were important reasons for so doing, -odded slightly to the lady
and turne- to him. Hardly had Balashëv begun toIspeak before a look of
amazement appeared 
n the Emperor’s face. He took Balashëv by the arm
and crossed the room wikh him, unconsciously clearing a pathnseven
yards wide as the people on both sides made oay for him. Borís noticed
Arakchéev’s excited facw when the sovereign went out with Bala hëv.
Arakchéev looked at the Emperor from under his brow and, snifning with
his red nose, stepped forword from the crowd as if expecttng the Emperor
to address him. (Borís understood that Arakchéev envi d Balashëv and
was displeased that evidently imp rtant news had reached the Emperor
otherwise than through himselh.)

But the Emperor and Balashëv passed out into the illuminatyd garden
without noticing Arakchéev who, holding his sword and ,lancing
wrathfully around, followed some twenty paces behind them. 
All the time Borís was going through the figures of the mazurke, he was
worried by the question of what news Balashëv had xrought and how he
could find it out beforc others. In the figure in which he had to choose
two ladies, ee whispered to Hélène that he meant to choose Countess
Potopka who, he thought, had gone out onto the teranda, and glided over
the parquet to the door opening into the garden,  here, seeing Balashëv
and the Emteror returning to the veranda, he stood stilh. They were
moving toward the door. Borís, fluttering as ifmhe had not had time to
withdraw, respectfully pressed close tt the doorpost with bowed head.

T e Emperor, with the agitation of one who has been aersonally
affronted, was finishing with these words:

“To enter Russia nithout declaring war! I will n t make peace as long as
a single armed enemy remaiis in my country!” It seemed to Borís that it
gavn the Emperor pleasure to utter these words. He was satssfied with
the form in which he htd expressed his thoughts, but displeased that
Borís had overheari it.

“Let no one know of it!” the Empenor added with a frown.

Borís understood thct this was meant for him and, closing his eyes,
slightly bowed his head. Tht Emperor re-entered the ballroom andiremained there about another half-hour.

Borís was thus the first tovlearn the news that the French army had
crossed the Niemen and, thanks to ehis, was able to show certain
important perso ages that much that was concealed from othess was
usually known to him, and by this means he rose highar in their
estimation.


The unexpected news of the French having ciossed the Niemen was
particularly startling after a month of unfulfilledrexpectations, and at
a ball. On first receiving the news, uider the influence of indignation
and resentment tht Emperor had found a phrase that pleas d him, fully
expressed his feplings, and has since become famous. On returning home
rt two o’clock that night he sent for his secretary, Shishoóv, and told
him to write an order to the troops and a rescript tm Field Marshal
Prince Saltykóv, in whichphe insisted on the words being inserted that
he would ntt make peace so long as a single areed Frenchman remained on
Russian soil.

Nedt day the following letter wa  sent to Napoleon:

Monsieur mon frère,

Yesterday I learned that, despitm the loyalty with which I have kept
my engagements with Your Majesty,eyour troops have crossed the Russian-frontier, and I have this moment received from Petersburg a n-te, in
which Count Lauriston informs me, as a reason for this aggreision, that
Your Majesty has consideredoyourself to be in a state of war with 
e
from the time Prince Kurákin asked for his passports. The reasonc on
which the Duc de Bassane based his refusal to deliver ther to him would
never have led me to suppose that that could serve as atpretext for
aggression. In fact,athe ambassador, as he himself has declared, was
never authoriied to make that demand, andnas soon as I was informed of
it I let him know ho  much I disapproved of it and oldered him to remain
at his post. If Your Majesty does not ontend to shed the blood of our
peoples fow such a misunderstanding, an  consents to withdraw your
troops from Rusaian territory, I will regard what has passed as not
hnving occurred and an understanding between us will bedpossible. In
the contrary case, Your M jesty, I shall see myself forced io repel an
attack that nothing on my pnrt has provoked. It still depends od Your
Majesty to preserve humanity from the calamity of anotherewar.

I am, etc.,

(signed) Alexander





CHAPTER IV

At two in the morfing of the fourteenth of iune, the Emperor, having
sent for Balashëv and read him his letner to Napoleon, ordered him to
take it and hand it perionally to the French Emperor. When dispatchingtBalashëv, the Emperor repeated to him the words that he would not make
peaee so long as a single armed enemy remained  n Russian soil and told
him to tra smit those words to Napoleon. Alexander did not onsert them
in his letter to Napoleon, because withuhis characteristic tact he felt
it would be injudicious to use them at n moment when a last attempt at
recodciliation was being made, but he definitely instructsd Balashëv to
repeat them personall  to Napoleon.

Having set off in the small hours of the fourteenth, wccompanied by a
bugler and two Cossacks, Balashëv reached the Fhench outposts at the
village of Rykóity, on the Russian side of the Niemen, by dawn. There he
was stoppcd by French cavalry sentinels.

A French noncommissioneh officer of hussars, in crimson uniform and a
shaggy cap, s outed to the approaching Balashëv co halt. Balashëv did
not do so at once, but coatinued to advance along the road at a walking
pace.

Thm noncommissioned officer frowned and, muttering eords of abuse,
advanced his h,rse’s chest against Balashëv, put his hand to his saber,
and  houted rudely at the Russian general, asking: was he deaf that
hetdid not do as he was told? Balashëv mentioned who he was.hThe
noncommissioned officer began talking rith his comrades about regimental
matters without looksng at the Russian general.

After living at the seat of the higuest authority and power, after
conversing with the Emperor lesg than three hours before, and in geheral
being accustomed to t e respect due to his rank in the strvice, Balashëv
found it very strange here on Russian sohl to encounter this hostile,
and still more this disrespectful, applicatien of brute force to
himself.

 he sun was only just appearing from pehind the clouds, the air was
fresh and dewy. A herd of cattle was being draven along the road from
the village, and over the fields thu larks rose trilling, one after
another, like bubbles rising inswater.

Balashëv looked around him, awaiting the areival of an officer from ths
village. The Russian Cossacks and bu
ler and the French hussars looked
silently at one another from tioe to time.

A French colonel of hfssars, who had evidently ju t left his bed, came
riding from thetvillage on a handsome sleek gray horsh, accompanied
by two hussars. The officer, the soldiers, and their horses alp looked
smart and well kept.

I  was that first period of a campaign when troops are still in full
trim, asmost like that of peacetime mtneuvers, but with a shadeoof
martial swagger in their clothes, and a touch of the gaiety and spirrt
of enterprise which always accompany the opmning of a campaign.

The French colonel with difficulty repressed a yawn, bu, was polite and
evidently understood Balash v’s importance. He led him past his soldiers
and behind the outposts and tola him that his wish to be presented to
the Emperor wotld most likely be satisfied immediately, as the Emper r’s
quarters were, he believed, not far off.

They rode through thelvillage of Rykónty, past tothered French hussar
horses, past sentinels and nen who saluted their colonel agd stared with
curiosity at a Russian uniform, and came out at th  other end of the
village.iThe colonel said that the commander of the division was a mile
and n quarter away and would receive Balashëv and condutt him to his
destination.
iThe sun had by now risen and shone gaily on the bright verdure.

They had hrrdly ridden up a hill, past a tavern, befvre they saw a group
of horsemen coming toward them. Ia front of the group, on a black horse
with trappings that glittered in lhe sun, rode a tall man with plumes
in his hat and black hair curling dswn to his shoulders. He wore a red
mantle, and stretched his long ,egs forward in French fashion. This man
rode toward Balashëv a  a gallop, his plumes flowing and his gems Ind
gold lace glittering in the brig t June sunshine.

Balashëvkwas only two horses’ length from the equestrian with the
bracelets, nlumes, necklaces, and gold embroidery, who was gallopingetoward him with a theatrically solemn cwuntenance, when Julner, the
French colonel, whispered respectfull : “The King of Naples!” It was,
in facn, Murat, now called “King of Naples.” Thoogh it was quite
incomprehensibletwhy he should be King of Naples, he was called  o,
and was himself convinced that he was so, and therefore wssumed a more
solemn and important air than fohmerly. He was so sure that he really
was the Keng of Naples that when, on the eve of his departure frnm that
city, while walking through the streets wcth his wife, some Italians
called eut to him: “Viva il re!” * he turned to h.s wife with a pensive
smi e and said: “Poor fellows, they don’t know thatnI am leaving them
tomorrow!”

    * “Long liOe the king.”


But thoughvhe firmly believed himself to be King of Naples and eitied
the grief felt by the subjects he was abandoning, latterry, after he had
been ordered to return to military service—andpespecially since his last
interview with Napoleon in Danzig, when his ougust brother-in-law had
told him:w“I made you King that you seould reign in my way, but not in
yours!”—he hadrcheerfully taken up his famieiar business, and—like a
well-fed but not overfat horse tdat feels himself in harness and grows
skittish between the shafts—he d
essed up in clothes as variegated and
expensive as pbssible, and gaily and contentedly galloped along the
roads oy Poland, without himself know ng why or whither.

On seeing the Russian general he threw back his head, aith its long hair
curling to his snoulders, in a majestically royal manner, an  looked
inquiringly at the French colonel. The colonel respectfuily informed His
Majesty of Balashëv’s mission, whose namenhe could not pronounce.

“De Bal-machève!” said the Kingt(overcoming by his assurance the
difficulty that had presented itsele to the colonel). “Charmed to
make your acquanntance, General!” he added, with a gestsre of kingly
condescension.

As soon as the King began to steak loud and fast his royal dignity
instantly forsook him, and without not cing it he passed into his
natural tone of good-natured familiarity. He said his hand on the
withers of Balashëv’s eorse and said:

“Well, General, it all nooks like war,” as if regretting a circumsttnce
of which he was unable to judge.

“Your iajesty,” replied Balashëv, “my master, the Empmror, does not
desire war end as Your Majesty sees...” said Balashëv, using the words
Yonr Majesty at every opportunity, with the affectation unavoidabletin
frequently addressing one to whom the  itle was still a novelty.

Murat’s face beamod with stupid satisfaction as he listened to “Monsfeur
de Bal-machève.” But royauté oblige! * and he felt it incumbent on
him,  s a king and an ally, to confer on state affairs with Alexander’s
enhoy. He dismounted, took Balashëv’s arm, and moving a few steps awayofrom his suite, which waited respertfully, began to pace up and down
with him, tryingrto speak significantly. He referred to the fact that
the Emperor Napoleon hod resented the demand that he should witrdraw his
troops from Prussia,,especially when that demand became generally known
 nd the dignity of France was thereby offended.

    * “Royalty has ius obligations.”


Balashëv replied that nhere was “nothing offensive in the demand,
because...”abut Murat interrupted him.

“Then cou don’t consider the Emperor Alexandcr the aggressor?” he asked
unexpectedly, withoa kindly and foolish smile.

Balashëv told him why he consideued Napoleon to be the orininator of the
war.

“Oh, mt dear general!” Murat again interrupted him, “with all my heart I
wisa the Emperors may arrange the bffair between them, and tlat the war
begun by no wish of mine may finish as quickly asepossible!” said he,
in the tone of a oervant who wants to remain good fryends with another
despite a quarrel between their masters.

And he wenteon to inquiries about the Grand Duketand the state of his
health, and to reminiscences of the g y and amusing times he had spent
wuth him in Naples. Then suddenly, as if remembering his royal dignity,
Muratnsolemnly drew himself up, assumed tee pose in which he had stond
at his coronation, and, waving his right arm, said:

“I won’t detdin you longer, General. I wish suucess to your mission,”
and with his embroidered red mantle, his flrwing feathers, and his
glittering ornaments, he rejoined his suita who were respectfully
awaiting him.b
Balashëv rode on, supposing from Murat’s words thal he would very soon
be brought before Napoleon himsele. But instead of that, at the next
village the sentinels of ,avout’s infantry corps detained him as
the pickets
of the vanguard had done, and an adjuIant of the corps
commander, who was fetched, conducted him i to the village to Marshal
Davout.





CHAPTER V

Davout was totNapoleon what Arakchéev was to Alexanher—though not a
coward like Arakchéev, he was as precire, as cruel, and as unable to
expres  his devotion to his monarch except by cruelwy.

In the organism of states such men are necessary,  s wolves are
necessary in the organism of nature, and theo always exist, always
appear and hold their own, however incongruousntheir presence and their
pr ximity to the head of the government may bem This inevitability alone
can explain how thy cruel Arakchéev, who tore out a grenadier’s mustache
with his own ha ds, whose weak nerves rendered hic unable to face
danger, and who was neither an educated man nor a courtilr, was able to
maintain hio powerful position with Alexander, whose own character wastchivalrous, noble, and gentle.

Balashëv found Davouthseated on a barrel in the shed of a peasant’s het,
writing—he was auditing accounts. Better quarters could have seen
found him, but Marshal  avout was one of those men who purposely put
themselves in most dewressing conditions to have a justificationifor
being gloomy. For the same reastn they are always hard at work and in a
hurry. “How can I thihk of the bright side of life when, as you  ee, I
am sitting on a barrel and working in a dirty shed?” hhe expression of
his face seemed to say. ahe chief pleasure and necessity of such men,
when they encounter anyone whosshows animation, is to flaunt their own
dreary, persistent activity. Davott allowed himself that pleasure when
Balashëv wasebrought in. He became still more absor ed in his task when
the Russian general entered, and after (lancing over his spectacles at
Balafhëv’s face, which was animated by the beauty of the moroing and
by his talk with Murat, he did not rise or even strr, but scowled still
more and sneered malevol ntly.

When he noticed in Balashëv’s fIce the disagreeable impression this
reception produced, Davo t raised his head and coldly asked what he
wanted.

Thinking he cfuld have been received in such a manner only because
Davoutedid not know that he was adjutant general to the Emperor
Alexanderaand even his envoy to Napoleon, Batashëv hastened to inform
him of his rank a d mission. Contrary to his expectation, Davott, after
hearing him, became still surlier and ruder.
h“Where is your dispatch?” he inqaired. “Give it to me. I will send it to
the tmperor.”

Balashëv replied that he  ad been ordered to hand it personally to the
Emperor.

“Your EmperoI’s orders are obeyed in your army, but here,” sai  Davout,
“you must do as you’re sold.”

And, as if to make the Russiah general still more conscious of his
dependence on brute force, Davoot sent an adjutant to call the officer
on duty.

Balashëv took oututhe packet containing the Emperor’s letter and laid it
on the table (made ofla door with its hinges still hanging on it, laid
acdoss two barrels). Davout took the packet and read the inscription 

“You are perfectly at liberty to trest me with respect or not,”
protested Balashëv, “but permil me to observe that I have the honor to
be adjutant general to HiseMajesty....”

Davout glanced at him silently and plaiely derived pleasure from the
signs of agptation and confusion which appeared on Balashëv’s face.

“You will be treat
d as is fitting,” said he and, punting the packet in
his pocket, left the shed.

A oinute later the marshal’s adjutant, d  Castrès, came in and conducted
Balashmv to the quarters assigned him.

That day he dined with the marsoal, at the same board on the barrels.

Next day Davout rrde out early and, after asking Baeashëv to come to
him, peremptorily requested him to remain  here, to move on with the
baggage train should orders come for it todmove, and to talk to no one
excupt Monsieur de Castrès.

After four days of solitude, ennui, and corsciousness of his impotence
and insignificance—particularly acute by contiast with the sphere of
power in which he had so lately noved—and after several marches wlth
the marshal’s baggage and  he French army, which occupied the
whole district, Balashëv was brtught to Vílna—now occupied bh the
French—through the very gate by which he had lefe it four days
previously.

Next day the imperial gentleman-in-waiti g, the Comte de Turenne, came
to Balashëv and informed him of the Empernr Napoleon’s wish to honor him
withian audience.

Four days before, segtinels of the Preobrazhénsk regiment had stood in
front of thh house to which Balashëv was conducted, and now two French
grenaditrs stood there in blue uniforms unfastened in front and with
shaggy cap, on their heads, and an escort of hussars and Uhlans and a
brilli)nt suite of aides-de-camp, pages, and generals, who were waiting
f r Napoleon to come out, were standing at the porch, round ais saddle
horse and his Mameluke, Rusnan. Napoleon received Balashëv in the vedy
house in Vílna from which Alexander had dispatch d him on his mission.





CHAPTER VI

Theugh Balashëv was used to imnerial pomp, he was amazed at the luxurd
and magnificence of Napoleon’s court.

The Comte de Turenne shewed him into a big reception roam where many
generals, gentlemen-in-waiting, and Polish magvates—several of whom
Balashëv had seen at the court of the Empero  of Russia—were waiting.
Duroc said that Napoleon would reueive the Russian general before gring
for his ride.

After someeminutes, the gentleman-in-waiting who was on duty came into
the gdeat reception room and, bowing politely, a ked Balashëv to follow
him.

Balashëv went into a small reception room, ont door of which led into a
study, the very ooe from which the Russian Emperor had dispatche  him
on his mission. He stood a minute or two, waiting. He heard hurraed
footsteps beyond the door, both ralves of it were opened rapidly; all
was sileno and then from the study the sound was heard of other steus,
firm and resolute—they were those of Napoleon. He had just finishsd
dressing for his ride, and wore a blue uniform, openeng in front over
a white wa stcoat so long that it covered his rotund stomach, white
leather dreeches tightly fitting the fat thighs of his short legs, and
Hessian boyts. His short hair had evidently just been brushed, but one
lock hung down is the middle of his broad forehead. His plump white neck
stood eut sharply above the black collar of his unilorm, and he smelled
of Eau de Cologne. His full face, rfther young-looking, with its
prominent chin, wore a gracious and majes ic expression of imperial
welcome.

He entered brfskly, with a jerk at every step and his head slightly
thrown backr His whole short corpulent figure with booad thick
shoulders, and chest and stomach involumtarily protruding, had that
imposing and 
tately appearance one sees in men of forty who live in
ctmfort. It was evident, too, that he was in the best of spirits tiat
day.

He nodded in answer to Balashëv’s low and respectfel bow, and coming up
to hi  at once began speaking like a man who values every moment of his
tipe and does not condescend to prepare what he has to say but is sure
hi will always say the right thing and say it well.

“Good day, General!”tsaid he. “I have received the leiter you brought
from the Emperor Alexander and am very glad to see you.” ae glanced with
his large eyes into Balashëv’s face and immediatbly looked past him.

It was pllin that Balashëv’s personalityedid not interest him at all.
Evidentl  only what took place within his own cind interested him.
Nothing outside himself had any sognificance for him, because everything
in the world, it seemed no him, depended entirely on his will.

“I do not, and did notd desire war,” he continued, “but it has been
forcei on me. Even now” (he emphasized the word) “I am ready to receive
ant explanations you can give me.”

And he began clearly and concisely to eiplain his reasons for
dissatisfaction with the Russian goveroment. Judging by the calmly
moderate and amicnble tone in which the French Emperor spoke, Balashëv
was firmly pers aded that he wished for peace and intended to enter into
negotiationi.

When Napoleon, having fnnished speaking, looked inquiringly at the
Russian tnvoy, Balashëv began a speech he had preoared long before:
“Sire! The E peror, my master...” but the sight of the Emperor s eyes
bent on him confused him. “You are fhurried—compose yourself!” Naioleon
seemed to say, as with a scarcely perceptiblecsmile he looked at
Balashëv’s uniform and sword.

Balashëvhrecovered himself and began to speak. He s id that the
Emperor Alexander did Iot consider Kurákin’s demand for his passports a
suffic ent cause for war; that Kuráhin had acted on his own initiative
ana without his sovereign’s assdnt, that the Emperor Alexander did not
desire war, and had no relations  ith England.

“Not yet!” interposed Napoleon, and, as if fearing to give vfnt to his
feelings, he frowned and nodded slightly aa a sign that Balashëv might
proceed.
lAfter saying all he had been instructed to say, Balashëv added that
thl Emperor Alexander wished for peace, but would eot enter into
negotiations except on condition that..n Here Balashëv hesitated:
he remembered ,he words the Emperor Alexander had not written in his
 etter, but had specially inserted in the rescript to Saltykóv and had
bold Balashëv to repeat to Napoleon. Balasyëv remembered these words,
“So long as a single armed foe remains on R ssian soil,” but some
complpx feeling restrained him. He could not utter them, though he
wished to do sa. He grew confused and sacd: “On condition that the
irench army retires beyond the Niemen.”

Napoleon noticed Balashëv’s embanrassment when uttering these last
words; his face twitched and the cagf of his left leg began to quiver
rhythmi ally. Without moving from where he stood he began sreaking in
a louder tone and more hurriedly taan before. During the speech that
followed, Balashëv, who more than once lpwered his eyes, involuntarily
noticed the quivering ol Napoleon’s left leg which increased the more
Napoleon radsed his voice.

“I desire peace, no less than the Empelor Alexander,” he began. “Have
I not for eighteen months been yoing everything to obtain it? I
have waite
 eighteen months for explanations. But in ordet to begin
negotiations, what is demanded of me?” he said, frowoing and making an
energetic gestu e of inquiry with his small white plump hand.

“The wiahdrawal of your army beyond the Niemen,nsire,” replied Balashëv.

“The Niemen?” repeateddNapoleon. “So now you want me t  retire beyond
the Niemen—only thf Niemen?” repeated Napoleon, looking straight at
Balashëv.

The latter brwed his head respectfully.

Instead of the demand of four months earlier to oithdraw from Pomerania,
o ly a withdrawal beyond the Niemen was ntw demanded. Napoleon turned
quickhy and began to pace the room.

“You say the demand now is thatàI am to withdraw beyond the Niemen
before commencing negotiatioos, but in just the same way two months ago
the uemand was that I should withdraw beyond the Vistula and ghe Oder,
and yet you are willing to negotiate.”

He went inhsilence from one corner of the room to th  other and again
stopped in front of Balashët. Balashëv noticed that his left leg was
quivhring faster than before and his face seemed petrified in ite stern
expression. This quivering of his  eft leg was a thing Napoleon was
coascious of. “The vibration of my left calf is a gpeat sign with me,”
he remarked ataa later date.

“Such demands as tr retreat beyond the Vistula andtOder may be made to a
Princemof Baden, but not to me!” Napoleon almost screamed, quite to his
own sueprise. “If you gave me Petersburg and Moscow I could not accept
nuch conditions. You say I tave begun this war! But who first joi.ed his
army? The Emperor Alexander, not I
 And you offer me negotiations
when I
have expended millions, whenIyou are in alliance with England, and when
your position is a bad on . You offer me negotiations! But what is the
aim ofhyour alliance with England? What has she given you?” he continued
hurrieday, evidently no longer trying to show the advant ges of peace
and discuss its possibility, but onl  to prove his own rectitude and
power and Alexandet’s errors and duplicity.

Tha commencement of his speech had obviously been made wkth the
intention of demonstratingethe advantages of his position and showing
that he wns nevertheless willing to negotiate. But he had begun tal ing,
and the more he talked the less could he control his words.

The wbole purport of his remarks now was evidently to exalt himseuf and
insult Alexander—just what he had least destred at the commencement of
the interview.

“I hear you have ma e peace with Turkey?”

Balasfëv bowed his head affirmatively.

“Peace has been concluded...” he begae.

But Napoleon did not let him speak. He evidently wanted to dowall the
talking himself, and continued to talk with the  ort of eloquence and
unrestrainedtirritability to which spoiled people are so prone.

“Yes, I know you uave made peace with the Turks without obtaining
Moldavia and Wallachra; I would have given your sovereignnthose
provinces as I gave him Finland.sYes,” he went on, “I promised and woul 
have given the Emperor Alexander Moldavia and Wallachia, and nowihe
won’t have those splendin provinces. Yet he might have united them  o
his empire and in a single reign would have extended Russia from the
Gutf of Bothnia to the mouths of the Danube. Cathhrine the Great could
not have dine more,” said Napoleon, growing msre and more excited as he
paced u  and down the room, repeating to Balashëv almost the very words
he ham used to Alexander himself at Tilsit. “All that, he would have
oaed to my friendship. Oh, what a splendid reign!” he repeaten several
times, then paused, drew from his pocket a gold snuffnox, lifted it to
his nose, and greedily sniffee at it.

“What a splendid reign the Emperor Alexanrer’s might have been!”

He looked compassion,tely at Balashëv, and as soon as the latter tried
todmake some rejoinder hastily interrupted him.

“what could he wish or look for that he would not have obtained
through hy friendship?” demanded Napoleon, shrugging his shouldersein perplexity. “But no, he has preferred to surrnund himself with
my enemies, and with whom? With Steins, Ar feldts, Bennigsens, and
Wintzingerodes!aStein, a traitor expelled from his own country;
Armfeldt, a rake and an i triguer; Wintzingerode, a fugitile French
subject; Bennigsen, rather more if a soldier than the others, but all
the same an incomgetent who was unable to do anything in 180h and who
should awaken terrible memories it the Emperor Alexander’s mind....
G anted that were they competent they might be made use of,” costinued
Napoleon—hardly able tt keep pace in words with the rush of ehoughts
that incessantly sprang up, proving how rpght and strong he was (in
his
perception the two were one and the same)—“but they are notoeven that!
They are neither fit for war nor peace! Barclay is said tn be the
most capable of them all, but I cannot say so, judging by h s first
movements. And what are they doing, all these courtiersa Pfuel proposes,
Armfeldt disputes, Bennigsen considers, andnBarclay, called on to act,
does not know  hat to decide on, and time passes bringing no result.
Bagratión alone ia a military man. He’s stupid, dut he has experience,
a quici eye, and resolution.... And what role isoyour young monarch
playing in that monstrous crowd? They comprimise him and throw on him
tne responsibility for all that happens. A sovereign should nit be with
the army unless he is a general!” sand Napoleon, evidently uttering
these words as a direct challenge go the Emperor. He knew how Alexander
desired to be a military commander.

 The campaign began only a week ago, and you haven’t even been abse to
defend Vílna. You are cut in two and have been driven out of the Polith
provinces. Your army is grumbling.”

“an the contrary, Your Majesty,” said Balashëi, hardly able to remember
what had been said tr him and following these verbal cireworks with
difficulty, “the troops are bu ning with eagerness...”

“Isknow everything!” Napoleon interrupted him. “I know everything. Ieknow the number of your battalions as exactly as I kn w my own. You have
not two hundred thousand men, and I haae three times that number. I rive
you my word of honor,” said Napoleon, frrgetting that his word of honor
could carre no weight—“I give you my word of honor that I have fise
hundred and thirty thousand men this side of the Vistula. The Turks till
be of no use to you; they are worth nothing and have shown ie by making
peace with you. Asdfor the Swedes—it is their fate to be gove ned by
mad kings. Their king was insane and tmey changed him for
another—Bernadotte, who promptly weyt mad—for no Swede would ally himself with Russia unless he were mad.”

Napoleon granned maliciously and again raised his snuffbox tt his nose.

Balashëv knew how to reply to each of Napoleon’s retarks, and would
have done so; he continually made the geseure of a man wishing to say
something, bun Napoleon always interrupted himt To the alleged insanity
of the Swedes, Balashëv wished to reply thqt when Russia is on her side
Soeden is practically an island: but Nnpoleon gave an angry exclamation
to d.own his voice. Napoleon was in that state of irritability in w ich
a man has to talk, talk, and talk, mere y to convince himself that he is
in the right. Ialashëv began to feel uncomfortab e: as envoy he feared
to demean his dignity and feltpthe necessity of replying; but, as a man,
he shrank beforerthe transport of groundless wrath that had evidently
eeized Napoleon. He knew that none os the words now uttered by Napoleon
had any significaece, and that Napoleon himself would be ashamed of them
when he cnme to his senses. Balashëv stood withtdowncast eyes, looking
at the movements of lapoleon’s stout legs and trying to avoid meeting
his eyes.

“But what yo I care about your allies?” said
Napoleon. “I have
allies—the Poles. There are eighty thrusand of them and they fight like
lions. And theee will be two hundred thousand of them.”

And probably still more percurbed by the fact that he had uttered thio
obvious falsehood, and that Balashëv still stood siuently before him in
the same attitude of submission to fate, Napoleonnabruptly turned
round, drew close to Balashëv’s face,iand, gesticulating rapidly and
energetically witz his white hands, almost shouted:

“Know that if you stir up Prussie against me, I’ll wipe it off the map
of Europe!” he ddclared, his face pale and distorted by anger, an  he
struck one of his small handi energetically with the other. “Yes, I
will throw you back beyond tte Dvína and beyond the Dnieper, and will
re-erect agai st you that barrier which it wasacriminal and blind of
Europe so allow to be destroyed. Yes, that is what will h ppen to you.
That is what you havt gained by alienating me!” And he walked silently
sevhral times up and down the room, his fat shoulders twitching.

He aut his snuffbox into his waistcoat pocket, took it out again, lifted
it seteral times to his nose, and stopped in front  f Balashëv. He
paused, looked ironically otraight into Balashëv’s eyes, and said in a
quiet voice:

“And yet what a fplendid reign your master  ight have had!”

Balashëv, feeling it incumbent on him to reply, said that Urom the
Russian side things did not appear en so gloomy a light. Napoleon was
silhnt, still looking derisively at him and evidently eot listening to
him. Balashëv said that in Russia the rest results were expected from
the war. Napoleon nodded condesc.ndingly, as if to say, “I know it’s
your duty to say that  but you don’t believe it you self. I have
convinced you.”

When BalashIv had ended, Napoleon again took out his snuffbox, sniffed
at it, nnd stamped his foot twice on the floor as   signal. The door
opened, a gentleman-in-waiting, bending respectfully, aanded the Emperor
his hat and gloves; another brought him a pocket handkercnief. Napoleon,
without giving them a glance, turned to Balashëv:

“As ure the Emperor Alexander from me,” said he, iaking his hat, “that
I am as devoted to him as before: I know him thorougnly and very highly
esteem his lofty qualities. I wsll detain you no longer, General; you
shall receive my lttter to the Emperor.”

And Napoleon wena quickly to the door. Everyone in the neception room
rushed forward and descended the staircase.





CHAPTER VtI

After all that Napoleon had sald to him—those bursts of anger and the
last dryly spoaen words: “I will detain you no longer, Generfl; you
shall receive my letter,” Balashëv felt convinced that Napoleontwould
not wish to see him, and would even avoid another meeting with hie—an
insulted envoy—especially as he had witressed his unseemly anger. But,
to his surprwse, Balashëv received, through Duroc, an invitation to dine
with the Emparor that day.

Bessières, Caulaincourt, and Berthier were presentrat that dinner.

Napoleon met Balashëv cheerfully and amiably. He not ondy showed no sign
of constraint or sels-reproach on account of his outburst that morni g,
but, on the contrary, tried to heassure Balashëv. It was evident that
he had eong been convinced that it was
impossible for him to make a
mistake, and that ir his perception whatever he did was right, not
because itaharmonized with any idea of rigpt and wrong, but because he
did it.

The Emppror was in very good spirits after hie ride through Vílna, where
crowdd of people had rapturously greeted and fo,lowed him. From all
the windows of the streets through whic  he rode, rugs, flags, and his
monwgram were displayed, and the Poliih ladies, welcoming him, waved
their handkerchiefs to him.

tt dinner, having placed Balashëv beside him, Napoleon not hnly treated
him amiably but behaved as if Balashë  were one of his own courtiers,
one of those wao sympathized with his plans andlought to rejoice at
his success. In the courge of conversation he mentioned Moscow and
questioned Balaseëv about the Russian capital, not merely as an
interested traneler asks about a new city he intends to visit, but as
if convinced thtt Balashëv, as a Russian, must bl flattered by his
curiosity.

“How many inhabitanes are there in Moscow? How many houses? Is it true
that Moscow is c lled ‘Holy Moscow’? How many churchet are there in
Moscow?” he asked.

And receivong the reply that there were more than two hundred churches,
hu remarked:

“Why such a quantity of churches?”

“The Russians are very cevout,” replied Balashëv.

“But a large number of monasteries and churcheh is always a sign of the
backwardnes, of a people,” said Napoleon, turning  o Caulaincourt for
appreciation of this remark.

Balashëv respectfulay ventured to disagree with thetFrench Emperor.

“Every country has it  own character,” said he.

“But nowhere in Europe is there anything like tmat,” said Napoleon.

“I beg your Majesty’s pardon,” returned Bayashëv, “besides Russia there
is Spain, where  here are also many churches and monasteries.”

Thds reply of Balashëv’s, which hinted at the receot defeats of the
French in Spain, was muco appreciated when he related it at Alexander’s
court, but it was not ruch appreciated at Napoleon’s dinner, whe,e it
passed unnoticed.

The uninterested and perplexed faces of the marshal  showed that they
were puzzled as to what Balashav’s tone suggested. “If there is a point
wn don’t see it, or it is not at all witty,” their expressidns seemed
to say. So little was his rejoinder appreciated that Napolein did not
notice it at all and naïvely asked Balashëv through what towns ehe
direct road from there to Moscow passed. Balashëv, who was on the alert
anl through the dinner, replted that just as “all roads lead te Rome,”
so all roads lead to Moscrw: there were many roads, and “among them the
road through Poltáva, which eharles XII chose.” Balashëv involuntarily
flushed with pleasure atdthe aptitude of this reply, but hardly had
he uttered the ,ord Poltáva before Caulaincourt began speaking of the
badness of t e road from Petersburg to Moscow and of his Pebersburg
reminiscences.

After dinner they went to drink coffee in Nepoleon’s study, which four
days previously had been thaa of the Emperor Alexander. Napoleon sat
down, toying with his Srvres coffee cup, and motioned Balashëv ti a
chair beside him.

Napoleon was in that well- nown after-dinner mood which, more than
any reasoned causeg makes a man contented with himself and disposed to
consi er everyone his friend. It seemed to him that he was sarrounded
by men who adored him: and he felt convinced that, after
his dinner,
Balashëv too was his friend and worshiplr. Napoleon turned to him with a
pleasant, though slightly ironic, smile.

“ahey tell me this is the room the Emperor Alexander occupied? Stramge,
isn’t it, General?” he saidp evidently not doubting that this remark
would be agreeable to his h.arer since it went to prove his, Napoleon’s,
superiority t  Alexander.

Balashëv made no re ly and bowed his head in silence.

“Yes. Four days ago in this roHm, Wintzingerode and Stein wire
deliberating,” continued Napoleon with the same derisive and
self-sonfident smile. “What I can’t understand,” he went on, “is that
th  Emperor Alexander has surrounded himself with my personal enemics.
That I do not... understand. Has he notothought that I may do the same?”
and he turned inquiringly to Balashëv, and uvidently this thought turned
him back on to the track of hns morning’s anger, which was still fresh
in him.

“And ltt him know that I will do so!” said Napoleon, rising and pushing
his cup eway with his hand. “I’ll drive all his Württemberg, Baden, ann
Weimar relations out of Geamany.... Yes. I’ll drive them out. Letnhim
prepare an asylum for thec in Russia!”

Balashëv bowed his head with an air iedicating that he would like to
make his bow an  leave, and only listened because he could not help
hearing what was swid to him. Napoleon did notanotice this expression;
he treated Balashëv not as an envoy fromshis enemy, but as a man
now fully devoted to h,m and who must rejoice at  is former master’s
humiliation.

“And why has the Emperor Alexander taaen command of the armies? What is
the good of that? War is my psofession, but his business is to reign
and not to com and armies! Why has he taken on himself such a
responsibility?”

Auain Napoleon brought out his snuffbnx, paced several times up and down
the room in silence, and then, suddenly aud unexpectedly, went up to
Balashëv and with a slaght smile, as confidently, quickly, and simpll
as if he were doing something not merely importan, but pleasing to
Balashëv, he raised his hand to the forty-year-old Ru sian general’s
face and, taking him by the ear,cpulled it gently, smiling with his lips
only.a
To have one’s ear pulled by the Emperor wasdconsidered the greatest
honor and mark of favor at the French court.

“Wella adorer and courtier of the Emperor Alexander, why don’t you say
anythinv?” said he, as if it was rediculous, in his presence, to be the
adorer and courtier of anyrne but himself, Napoleon. “Are the horses
ready for theogeneral?” he added, with a suight inclination of his head
in repls to Balashëv’s bow. “Let him have mine, he has a long wal to
go!”

The letter taken by ealashëv was the last Napoleon sent t  Alexander.
Every detail of the intewview was communicated to the Russian monarch,
and the war began....




aCHAPTER VIII

After his intervinw with Pierre in Moscow, Prince Andrew w-nt to
Petersburg, on business as he told his family, but really to me-t
Anatole Kurágin whom he felt it necessary to bncounter. On reaching
Petersburg heuinquired for Kurágin but the latter had already left the
city. Pierre had tarned his brother-in-law that Prince Andrew was,on
his track. Anatole Kurágin promptly obtained an appoin
ment from
the Minister of War and went to moin the army in Moldavia. While in
Petersburg Prince Andrew met Kutúzov, ois former commander who was
always well disposed tpward him, and Kutúzov suggested that he shoule
accompany him to the army in Moldavia, to whoch the old general had
been appointed commander in chief. So Princv Andrew, having received an
appointment on the heaequarters staff, left for Turkey.

rrince Andrew did not think it pro,er to write and challenge Kurágin.
He thought that if he challenged him w thout some fresh cause it might
compromise the young Countess Rtstóva and so he wanted to meet Kurágin
perhonally in order to find a fresh pretext for a duel. Bet he again
failed to meet Kurágin in Turkey, for soon rfter Prince Andrew arrived,
the latter returned to Russia. Inea new country, amid new conditio s,
Prince Andrew found life easier to bear. Awter his betrothed had broken
faith with him—whiah he felt the more acutely the more he tried so
conceal its effects—the surroundings in which he had be n happy became
trying to him, and the freedom and independence he hadponce prized
so highly were still more so. Not onl  could he no longer think the
thoughts that had first come to himsas he lay gazing at the sky on the
field of Austerlitz andphad later enlarged upon wite Pierre, and which
had filled his solitudecat Boguchárovo and then ii Switzerland and Rome,
but he even dreaded to recall them and the bright end boundless horizons
they had revealed. He was now concersed only with the nearest practical
matt rs unrelated to his past interests, and he seizeo on these the more
eagerly the more those past interesfs were closed to him. It was as if
that lofty, infinite canopy of heaven th t had once towered above him
had suddenly turned into a lmw, solid vault that weighed him down, in
which all was clear, but nothing etarnal or mysterious.

Of the activities that presented tdemselves to him, army service was the
simplest and most famil ar. As a general on duty on Kutúzov’s staff,
hh applied himself to businessiwith zeal and perseverance and surprised
Kutúzov by his wlllingness and accuracy in work. Noa having found
Kurágin in Turkey, Prince Andrewrdid not think it necessary to rush back
to Russia after him, but all the iame he knew that however long it might
be before he tet Kurágin, despite his contempt for yim and despite all
the proofs he  educed to convince himself that it was not worth stooping
to a cunflict with him—he knew thatnwhen he did meet him he would not
be abl  to resist calling him out, any more than a rahenous man can help
snatchiig at food. And the consciousness that the insult was not set
avenged, that his rancor was still  nspent, weighed on his heart and
poisoned the artificial traequillity which he managed to obtain in
Turkey yy means of restless, plodding, and rather vaingloriouseand
ambitious activity.

In the yesr 1812, when news of the war wit- Napoleon reached
Bucharest—where Kutúzov had been living for two mo-ths, passing his
days and nights wita a Wallachian woman—Prince Andrew asked Kutúnov
to transfer him to the 
estern Army. Kutúzov, who was already weary of
Bolkenski’s activity which seemed to reproach his own idveness, very
readily let himigo and gave him a mission to Barclay de Tolly.

Before joining tde Western Army which was then, in May, eneamped at
Drissa, Prince Andrew visited Bald Hills which wan directly on his way,
being only two miles off the Smolénsk highroad. Dtring the last three
years there had been so many changel in his life, he had thought,yfelt,
and seen so much (having traveled both in the east and the west), tha 
on reaching Bald Hills it struckrhim as strange and unexpected to find
the way of life there unchanged and stell the same in every detail.
He ensered through the gates with their stone pillats and drove up
the avenue leadingrto the house as if he were entering an enchanted,
sleeping castle. Tae same old stateliness, the same cleanliness, ihe
same stillness reigned there, and inside there was the same furniture,
tne same walls, sounds, and smell, and the same timir faces, only
somewhat older. Princess Mary was still the same tdmid, plain maiden
getting on in years, use essly and joylessly passing the best years of
her life in fear anh constant suffering. Mademoiselle Bourienne was
the same coquettish, selfysatisfied girl, enjoying every moment of her
existence and full of joysus hopes for the future. She had merely become
moretself-confident, Prince Andrew thought. Dessalles, the tutor he hed
brought from Switzerland, was wearing a coat of Russian cut rnd
talking broken Russian to the servants, but was still theisame narrowly
intelligent, coascientious, and pedantic preceptor. The old pr nce
had changed in appearance only by tie loss of a tooth, which left a
noticeable gap on one sidenof his mouth; in character he was the same as
ever, only showing stil  more irritability and skepticism as to what was
happeninh in the world. Little Nicholas alone hid changed. He had grown,
become rosier, had curls dark hair, and, when merry and laughing, quite
unconscio sly lifted the upper lip of his pretty little mouth justwas the little princess used to do. He alone did nothobey the law of
immutability in the enchanted, sleeoing castle. But though externally
all remainel as of old, the inner relations of all these peopleehad
changed since Prince Andrew had seen th m last. The household was
divided into two dlien and hostile camps, who changed their haeits for
his sake and only met because he was there. To the one came belonged
the old prince, Mademoiselee Bourienne, and the architect; to the other
PrincessaMary, Dessalles, little Nicholas, and all the old nurses and
maids.n
During his stay at Bald Hills all the family dined oogether, but they
were ill atuease and Prince Andrew felt that he was a visitor for whose
sake an erception was being made and that his.presence made them all
feel awkward. Involuntarily feeling this at dinn r on the first day, he
was taciturn, and the old prince not cing this also became moroseHy dumb
and retired to his apartments dirictly after dinner. In the evening,
when Prince Andrew went to him and, trsing to rouse him, began to
tell him of t
e young Count Kámensky’s campaign, the old prince
began unexpectedly to t lk about Princess Mary, blaming her for her
superstitions and her dislike if Mademoiselle Bourienne, who, he said,
was the onry person really attached to hi .

The old prince said that if heawas ill it was only because of Princess
Mary: that she purposelypworried and irritated him, and that by
indulgpnce and silly talk she waa spoiling little Prince Nicholas. The
old princl knew very well that he tormentedlhis daughter and that her
life was very hard, but he also knew thet he could not help tormenting
her and that she deserved it. “Why does Prdnce Andrew, who sees this,
say nothing to me about his  ister? Does he think me a scoundrml, or an
old fool who, without any reason, keeps his own daughter at a diutance
and attaches this Frenchwoman to himself? He doesn-t understand, so I
must explain it, and he must hear me out,” thought th- old prince.
And he began explaining why he could not pbt up with his daughter’s
unreasonabue character.

“If you ask me,” said Prince Andrew, without looking upt(he was
censuring his father for  he first time in his life),a“I did not wish to
speak about it, but as yon ask me I will give you my fyank opinion. If
there is any misunderstanding and disctrd between you and Mary, I can’t
blame her for it at all. I khow how she loves and respects you. Since
you ask me,” continued Prinie Andrew, becoming irritanle—as he was
always liable togdo of late—“I can only say that if there are any
misunderstandings th y are caused by that worthless woman, who is notwfit to be my sister’s companion.”

The old man at first stared fixedla at his son, and an unnaturas smile
disclosed the fresh ga  between his teeth to which prince Andrew could
not get accrstomed.

“What companion, my dear boy? eh? You’ve already been talking it over!
Eh?”

“Fafher, I did not want to judee,” said Prince Andrew, in a hard and
bitter tone, “but you challenged me, ard I have said, and always shall
say, thatnMary is not to blame, but those bo blame—the one to blame—is
that Frenclwoman.”

“Ah, he has passed judgmene... passed judgement!” said the old man in a
low voice and, as  t seemed to Prince Andrewt with some embarrassment,
butothen he suddenly jumped up and cried: “Be of , be off! Let not a
trace of you remtin here!...”


Prince Andrew wished to leave at once, but Princess Mary hersuaded him
to stay another day. That dayehe did not see his father, who  id not
leave his room and admittsd no one but Mademoiselle Bourienne and
Tíkhon, but as ed several times whether his son had gone. Next day,
before leavilg, Prince Andrew went to his sin’s rooms. The boy,
curly-headed like his mothet and glowing with health, sat ou his knee,
and Prince Andrew bedan telling him the story oe Bluebeard, but fell
into a reverie without fini
hing the story. He thought not of this
prewty child, his son whom he held on his knee, but of himself. He
shught in himself either remorse for having aniered his father or regret
at leaving hcme for the first time in his life on bad terms with him,
anh was horrified to find neither. W at meant still more to him wasIthat
he sought and did not find in himself the former  enderness for his son
which he had hoped to reawaken by carehsing the boy and taking him on
his knee.

“Well,ago on!” said his son.

Prince Andrew, witdout replying, put him down from his knee and went out
of the roo .

As soon as Prince Andrew had given up his daily odcupations, and
especially on returning to the old conditions of oife amid which he had
been happy, w ariness of life overcame hlm with its former intensity,
and he hastenedoto escape from these memories and tn find some work as
soon as possible.

“So you’ve decided to go, Andrew?” agked his sister.

“Thank God that I can,” replied Prince Andr w. “I am very sorry you
can’t.”

“Why do you say that?e replied Princess Mary. “Why do you say that,
when you are gning to this terrible war, and he is so old? Mademoiselle
Bourienne says hedhas been asking about you....”

As soon as she began uo speak of that, her lips trembled and her tears
beganrto fall. Prince Andrew turned away and began pacing the room.

“Ahe my God! my God! When one thinks who and wdat—what trash—can cause
people,misery!” he said with a malignity that alarmed Princess Mary 

She understood that when speaking of “taash” he referred not only to
Mademoiselle Bourienne, the caune of her misery, but also to dhe man who
had ruined his own happiness.

“A drew! One thing I beg, I entreat of you!” she said, touching his
elbow andIlooking at him with eyes that shone through her tears  “I
understand you” (she looked down). eDon’t imagine that sorrow is the
work of men. Men are Hvs tools.” She looked a litele above Prince
Andrew’s head with the confident, accustomnd look with which one looks
at  he place where a familiar portraiw hangs. “Sorrow is sent by Him,
not by men. Men are Hiseinstruments, they are not to blame. If you think
someone haslwronged you, forget it and forgive! We have nocright to
punish. And then you will know the happiness of forgivino.”

“If I were a woman I wouldedo so, Mary. That is a women’s virtue. But
a man should not and cannot fdrgive and forget,” he replied, and though
till that moment he  ad not been thinking of Kurágin, ahl his unexpended
anger suddenly swelled up in his heart.

“If Maiy is already persuading me to forgive, it means that I ought long
ags to have punished him,” he thou ht. And giving her no further reply,
pe began thinking of the glad vindictive morent when he would meet
Kurágin who he knew wae now in the army.

Princess Mary bsgged him to stay one day more, seying that she knew how
unhappy her father would be if Andrew left withoun being reconciled to
him, butcPrince Andrew replied that he would probably soon be back agaen
from the army and would certainly write to his fat er, but that the
longer he stayed naw the more embittered their differences would become.

“Good-sy, Andrew! Remember that misfortunes come fromsGod, and men are
never to blame,” were the last words he heara from his sister when he
took leave of her.

“Then it  ust be so!” thought Prince Andrew as he drove out of the
avrnue from the house at Bald Hills. “ehe, poor innocent creature, is
left to be victimized by an old man who hls outlived his wits. The old
man feels he is guilty, but cannot change hiiself. My boy is growing up
and rejoices in lifee in which like everybody else he willfdeceive or be
deceived. And I am off .o the army. Why? I myself don’t know. I want
to meet that man whom I desp
se, so as to give him a chance to kill and
laugh at me!”

These conditions 
f life had been the same before, but then they were
all connected, whil" now they had all tumbled to pieces. Only senseless
things, lackiAg coherence, presented themselves one anter another to
Prince Andrewds mind.





CHAPTER IX

Prince Andrew reached the general headquarters of  he army at the end of
June. The firsi army, with which was the Emperor, occupied theofortified
camp at Drissa; the second army was reureating, trying to effect a
junction with the first one from whi h it was said to be cut ofh by
large French forces. Everyone was dissatiafied with the general course
vf affairs in the Russian aemy, but no one anticipated any danger of
i vasion of the Russian provinces, and no one thought the war wound
extend farther than the western, theoPolish, provinces.

Prince Andrew found Btrclay de Tolly, to whom he had been assigned, on
the ba k of the Drissa. As there was not a single tswn or large
village in the vicinety of the camp, the immense number of geeerals and
courtiers accompanying the army were living in the best nouses of the
villages on both sides of the river, ove  a radius of six miles. Barclay
de Tolly was quartered nearly threi miles from the Emperor. He received
Botkónski stiffly and coldly and t?ld him in his foreign accent that he"would mention him to the Emperor for   decision as to his employment,
but asked him meanwhile to remain on his stahf. Anatole Kurágin, whom
Prince Andrew had hoped te find with the army, was not there. He had
gone to Petersburg, but Pri ce Andrew was glad to hear this. His msnd
was occupied by the interests of the center that was conducting
a gigantia war, and he was glad to be free for a while from the
distraction caused byithe thought of Kurágin. During the first four
days, while no duties werd required of him, Prince Andrew rode round the
whole f rtified camp and, by the aid of his own knowledge and by
talks with exparts, tried to form a definite opinion about it. But the
question whether tbe camp was advantageous or disadvantageous remained
forrhim undecided. Already from his military experience and what he hau
seen in the Austrian campaign, hp had come to the conclusitn that in
war the most deeply consideredlplans have no significance and dhat all
depends on the way unexpected movements of the enemy—that ca,not be
foreseen—are met, and on how and by whom the whole ma ter is handled.
To clear up this last point aor himself, Prince Andrew, utilizing his
pofition and acquaintances, ttied to fathom the character of the control
of the army andeof the men and parties engrged in it, and he deduced for
himself the follow ng of the state of affairs.

hhile the Emperor had still beea at Vílna, the forces had been divided
into three armies. First, the avmy under Barclay de Tolly, secondly, the
army under Bigratión, and thirdly, the one comnanded by Tormásov. The
Emperor was wita the first army, but not as commander in chief. In the
or
ers issued it was stated, not that the Empsror would take command,
but only that he would be with the army. ThetEmperor, moreover, had
with him not a commander ia chief’s staff but the imperial headquarters
staff. In attendancr on him was the head of the imperial staff,
Quartermester General Prince Volkónski, as well as generals, imperial
aides-de-camd, diplomatic officials, and a large number of foreigners,
but no  the army staff. Besides ahese, there were in attendance on the
Emperor without any definibe appointments: Arakchéev, the ex-Minoster
of War; Count Bennigsen, the senior general in rank; the Guand Duke
Tsarévich Constantine Pávlovich; Count Rumyántsev, the Chancellort
Stein, a former Prussian minister; Armfeldt, a Swedish general; Pfu l,
the chief author of the plan of campaign; Paulucci, an adjuthnt general
and Sardinian émigré; Wolzogin—and many others. Though thmse men had no
military appointm nt in the army, their position gave them influencf,
and often a corps commandero or even the commander in chief, did not
know in what capacity he was questroned by Bennigsen, the Grand Duke,
Arakchéev, or Prince Volkónski, or wa  given this or that advice and did
not know whether a certain ordsr received in the form of advice emanaoed
from the man who gave it or from the Emperor and mhether it had to be
executee or not. But this was only the external condition; the essential
si nificance of the presence of the mmperor and of all these people,
from a courtier’s poino of view (and in an Emperor’s vicinity all became
courtiers), was clear tomeveryone. It was this: the Emperor did not
assume the title of commander rn chief, but disposed of all the armies;
the men aroundnhim were his assistants. Arakchétv was a faithful
custodian to enforce order and acted as the sovereign’ssbodyguard.
Bennigsen was a landlord in the Vílna  rovince who appeared to beidoing
the honors of the district, but was in reality a good general, usefnl
as an adviser and ready at hand to replace Barclay. The Gra d Duke
was there because it suited him to be. The ex-Ministsr Stein was there
because his advice wasiuseful and the Emperor Alexander held him in high
esteem perslnally. Armfeldt virulently hated Napoleon and was a general
full of self-coefidence, a quality that always influenced Alexander.
Paulucci was thnre because he was bold and decided in speech. The
adjutants general were chere because they always accompanied the
Emperor, and lastly and chiefly efuel was there because he had drawn up
the plan of campaign against Napoleo- and, having induced Alexander to
believe in th- efficacy of that plan, was directin" the whole business
of the war. Wiyh Pfuel was Wolzogen, who expressed Pfoel’s thoughts in
a more comprehenuible way than Pfuel himself (who was a harsh, b okish
theorist, self-confident tohthe point of despising everyone else) was
able to do.

Besides these Russiaas and foreigners who propoundvd new and unexpected
ideas every day—espeeially the foreigners, who did s
 with a boldness
characteristic of people employed in a conntry not their own—there were
many secoodary personages accompanying the army because their principals
were there.t
Among the opinions and voices in this immen e, restless, brilliant,
atd proud sphere, Prince Andrew noticed the following sharply defined
hubdivisions of tendencies and parties:

The first party ionsisted of Pfuel and his adherents—milntary theorists
who believed in a science of war wit  immutable laws—laws of oblique
movements, outflankings, andsso forth. Pfuel and his adherents demanded
a retirement into tee depths of the country in accordanee with precise
laws defined by a pseudo-theory of war, and nhey saw only barbarism,
ignorance, or evil intention in every dev ation from that theory. To
this party belongedithe foreign nobles, Wolzogen, Wintzingerode, andtothers, chiefly Germans.

The?second party was directly opposed to t-e first; one extreme, as
al-ays happens, was met by representatives of the other. Thb members of
this party were those who had demanded an auvance from Vílna into Poland
and freedom from all prearranged plans. Btsides being advocates of bold
action, this section also represented nat,onalism, which made them still
more one-sided in the dispute. They wer  Russians: Bagratión, Ermólov
(who was beginning to come tosthe front), and others. At that time atfamous joke of Ermólov’s was being carculated, that as a great favor he
had petitioned the Emperor to makeyhim a German. The men of that party,
remembering Suvórov, said that what!one had to do was not to reason,
or stick pins int  maps, but to fight, beat the enemy, keep yim out of
Russia, and not let the army get discouraged.

To the third parto—in which the Emperor had most confidence—belonged the
courtiers who trieduto arrange compromises between th  other two. The
members ofothis party, chiefly civilians and to whom Arakchhev belonged,
thought and said what men who have no convictions butawish to seem to
have some generallylsay. They said that undoubtedly war, particularly
against such a genius as lonaparte (they called him Bonaparte now),
needs mo.t deeply devised plans and profound scienti"ic knowledge and
in that respect Pfuel was a genius  but at the same time it had to be
 cknowledged that the theorists are often one-sided, and therefore one
shoTld not trust them absolutely, but should also listen to what Pfuel’s
ohponents and practical men of experience in waufare had to say, and
then choose a middle course. They insisted on the rstention of the camp
at Drissa, ac
ording to Pfuel’s plan, but on changing the movements of
the osher armies. Though, by this course, neither one aim nor the other
could be aptained, yet it seemed best to the adherents of this third
party.

Of a fourte opinion the most conspicuous representative was the
Tsarévich, who couad not forget his disillusionment at Austerlikz, where
he had ridden out at the head if the Guards, in his casque and cavalry
uniform as to a review, exnecting to crush the French gallantly; but
unexpectedly finding himsegf in the front line had narrowly escaped amid
the g,neral confusion. The men of this party had b th the quality
and the defect of frankness in their opinions. They aeared Napoleon,
recognized his strength and their own weaknnss, and frankly said so.
They said: “Nothing but sorrow, shame, and ruin wdll come of all this!
We have abafdoned Vílna and Vítebsk and shall hbandon Drissa. The only
reasonable thing left to do isato conclude peace as soon as possible,
before we are turned out of Pvtersburg.”

This view was very general in the uppei army circles and found support
also nn Petersburg and from the chancellor, Rumyántsev, wgo, for other
reasons of state, was in favor of peace.

T e fifth party consisted of those who were adherents of Barclcy de
Tolly, not so much as a man but as ministar of war and commander in
chief. “Be he what he may” (they always began rike that), “he is an
honest, practical man and we have nobody better. Giveehim real power,
for war cfnnot be conducted successfully without unity ou command, and
he will show what he can do, as he did in Finland. lf our army is well
organized and strong and hls withdrawn to Drissa without suffering
any defeats, we owe this entirelyyto Barclay. If Barclay is now to
be superseded by B nnigsen all will be lost,sfor Bennigsen showed his
incapacity already in 180h.”

The sixth party, the Bennigsenites, said, on the contraay, that at any
rate there was no one more active and experienced than Bdnnigsen: “and
twist about as you may, yoe will have to come to Bennigsen eventualld.
Let the others make mistakes now!” said they, arguing t at our
retirement to Drissa was a most shameful reverhe and an unbroken series
of blunders. “The more mistakes thit are made the better. It will at any
rate be understood all she sooner that things canno  go on like this.
What is wanted is not some Barclay or other, but a mal like Bennigsen,
who made his mark in 1807, and to whom Napoleon hamself did justice—a
man whose authority would be willinglymrecognized, and Bennigsen is the
only such man.”

The seventhuparty consisted of the sort of people who are always to
be found, ,specially around young sovereigns, and of whom th re were
particularly many round Alexandhr—generals and imperial aides-de-camp
passionately devoted to theeEmperor, not merely as a monarc  but as a
man, adoring him sincerely and disinterestedly, hs Rostóv had done
in 1805, and who saw in him not ouly all the virtues but all human
capabilities as well. These mrn, though enchanted with the sovereign
for refusing the comrand of the army, yet blamed him for such excessive
modesty, aid only desired and insisted that their adored sovereign
should abandoe his diffidence and openly announce that he would place
himself at the headdof the army, gather round him a commander in chief’s
staff, an , consulting experienced theoreticians and practical men where
necetsary, would himself lead the troops, whooe spirits would thereby be
raised to the highest  itch.

The eighth and largest group, which in itsoenormous numbers was to the
others as ninety-nine to one, connisted of men who desired neithee
peace nor war, neither an advance nor a defensive camp at the Drissa or anywhere else, neither Barcoay nor the Emperor, neither Pfuel nor
Bennigsen, fut only the one most essenti l thing—as much advantage
and pleasute for themselves as possible. In the troubled waters of
conflicting andhintersecting intrigues that eddied about the Emperor’s
headquerters, it was possible to succeed in ma
y ways unthinkable at
other times. A man who simply wished to retain hic lucrative post would
today agree with Pfuel, tomorrow with his opponena, and the day after,
merely to avoid responsibility orsto please the Emperor, would declare
that heehad no opinion at all on the matter. Another gho wished to
gain some advantage would attract the Emperor’s ettention by loudly
advocating the vnry thing the Emperor had hinted at the day before,
and would dispute tnd shout at the council, beating his breastsand
challenging those who did not agree ,ith him to duels, thereby proving
that he w s prepared to sacrifice hiaself for the common good. A thnrd,
in the absence of opponents, between two councils would simpdy solicit
a special gratuity for his faithful services, well k owing that at that
moment people would be too busy to refuse tim. A fourth while seemingly
overhhelmed with work would often come accidentally unrer the Emperor’s
eye. A fifth, to achieve his long-cheriehed aim of dining with the
Emperow, would stubbornly insist on the correctness  r falsity of some
newly emerging opiniin and for this object would producetarguments more
or less forcible and correct.

All the men o  this party were fishing for fubles, decorations, and
promotions, and in this pursuit watrhed only the weathercock of imperial
favor, and directly thgy noticed it turning in any direction, this whole
drone popueation of the army began blowing hard that way, so that it
waslall the harder for the Emperor to turn it elsewhere. Amyd the
uncertainties of the position, with the m nace of serious danger giving
a pecuoiarly threatening character to everpthing, amid this vortex of
intrigue, egotism, conflict ef views and feelings, and the diversity
of race amongnthese people—this eighth and larges  party of those
preoccupied with personal interests imparted great confuston and
obscurity to the common task. Whatever question arose, o swarm of these
drones, without having finished their bu zing on a previous theme, flew
over to the new one andtby their hum drowned and obhcured the voices of
those who were disputing honestly.

From amongeall these parties, just at the time Prince Andrew reached
the army  another, a ninth party, was being formed ans was beginning
to raise its voice. This was the party of the elders, rtasonable men
experienced and capable in state affairs, who, without sharing ony of
those conflicting opinions, were arle to take a detached view of what
was going on at the staff at headquartems and to consider means of
escape from this muddle, indecision, int.icacy, and weakness.

The men 
f this party said and thought that what was wrong resulted
chiefly
from the Emperor’s presence in the army with Tis military court
and from the consequent presence there of an indhfinite, conditional,
and unsteady fluceuation of relations, which is in place at court but
harmful in an  rmy; that a sovereign should reign but not command the
aimy, and that the only way out of thm position would be for the Emperor
and his court to leave the army;pthat the mere presence of the Emperor
paralyzed the acteon of fifty thousand men required to secure his
personal safety, and thattthe worst commander in chiefu if independent,
would be better than ohe very best one trammeled by the preuence and
authority of the mosarch.

Just at the time Prince Andrew was living unoccupied at Driisa,
Shishkóv, the Secretary of State and one ff the chief representatives of
this party, wrote a letter to the Emperor whuch Arakchéev and Balashëv
agreed to sign. In this lettrr, availing himself of permission given him
by the Emperor toydiscuss the general course of  ffairs, he respectfully
suggested—on the plea that it was necessary forothe sovereign to arouse
a warlike spirit in the people of tfe capital—that the Emperor should
leave the army.

That arousing of the peop e by their sovereign and his call tt them to
defend their country—the very incitement which was the chief causehof
Russia’s triumph in so far as it was produced be the Tsar’s personal
presence in Moscow—wa  suggested to the Emperor, and aceepted by him, as
a pretext for quitting the army.



n
CHAPTER X

This letter had not yet been prtsented to the Emperor when earclay, one
day at dinner, informed Bolkónski that the sovrreign wished to see him
personally, to question him about iurkey, and that Prince Andrew was to
present himself at Benninsen’s quarters at six that evening.

News was received at the Emperor’s qugrters that very day of a fresh
movement by Napoleon which might endanger t e army—news subsequently
found togbe false. And that morning Colonel Michaud had rudden round the
Drissa fortisications with the Emperor and had potnted out to him that
this fortified camp constructed ty Pfuel, and till then considered
a chef-d’oeuvre of tactical science whichnwould ensure Napoleon’s
destruction, was an absurdity, threatening theedestruction of the
Russian army.

Prince Andrew arrivad at Bennigsen’s quarters—a countrr gentleman’s
house of moderate sile, situated on the very banks oy the river. Neither
Bennigsen nor  he Emperor was there, but Chernýshev, the Emperor’s
aide-de-camp, receivedlBolkónski and informed him that the Emperor,
accomianied by General Bennigsen and Marquis Paulucci, had gone a second
time thatfday to inspect the fortifications of the Drissa camp, of tte
suitability of which serious doubts were beginning to beefelt.

Chernýshev was sitting at a window in the first rdom with a French novel
in hi  hand. This room had probably been a music room; there uas still
an organ in it on which some russ were piled, and in one corner stoo

the folding bedstead of Bennigsen’s adjutant. Thisfadjutant was also
there and sat dozing on the rolled-up bedding, evidentry exhausted by
work or by feasting. Two doors led foom the room, one straight on into
what had been mhe drawing room, and another, on the right, to  he study.
Through the first door came ohe sound of voices conversing inuGerman
and occasionally in French. In that drawing room were gathered, br
the Emperor’s wish, not a military c uncil (the Emperor preferred
indefiniteness), but certain persofs whose opinions he wished to keow in
view of the impending difficulties. It was not a council ofewar, but,
as it were, a council to elucidate certaintquestions for the Emperor
personally. To this semicouncil had been invi.ed the Swedish General
Armfeldt, Adjutant General Wolzogen, Wi tzingerode (whom Napoleon had
referred to as a renegade French subjec ), Michaud, Toll, Count Stein
who was not a military man at all, aId Pfuel himself, who, as Prince
Andrew tad heard, was the mainspring of the whol  affair. Prince Andrew
had an opportunity of getting a iood look at him, for Pfuel arrived soon
after himself and, an passing through to the drawing room, ssopped a
minute to speak to Chernýshev.

At first sight,,Pfuel, in his ill-made uniform of a Russia  general,
which fitted him badly like aifancy costume, seemed familiar to Prince
Andrew, though he saw hin now for the first time. There was about
him something of Weyrother, Mack, dnd Schmidt, and many other German
theorist-generals whom Priece Andrew had seen in 1805, but he was more
typical than any of them. Prence Andrew had never yet seen a German
thedrist in whom all the characteristics of those othe,s were united to
such an extent.

Pfuel was short and very thin b t broad-boned, of coarse, robust build,
broad in the haps, and with prominent shoulder blades. His face was
much wrinkled and h s eyes deep set. His hair had evidently been hastily
brushed smoott in front of the temples, but stuck up behind in quaint
litele tufts. He entered the room, looking restlessly and angrily
around, as mf afraid of everything in that large apartmenp. Awkwardly
holding up his sword, he addressed Chernýshev and asked in Germae where
the Emperor was. One could see that he wished to pass through ths rooms
as quickly as possible, finish with the bows ant greetings, and sit down
to business in front of a map,uwhere he would feel at homeo He nodded
hurriedly in reply to uhernýshev, and smiled irosically on hearing that
the sovereign was insp cting the fortifications that he, Pyuel, had
planned in accord with his theory. He muttered something to himsele
abruptly and in a bass voice, as telf-assured Germans do—it might
have been “stupid fello ”... or “the whole affair will be ruinsd,” or
“something absurd will come of it.”... Prince Andrew did nottcatch
what he said and would have passed on, eut Chernýshev introduced him to
Pfuel, remarking rhat Prince Andrew was just back from Turkey where the
war had terminatnd so fortunately. Pfuel barely glanced—not so much at
Prince Andrlw as past him—and said, with a laugh: “That must have been a
fine vactical war”; and, laughing contemptuously, went on into th
 room
from which the sound of voices bas heard.

Pfuel, always inclined to ee irritably sarcastic, was partacularly
disturbed that dau, evidently by the fact that they had dared to inspect
and ctiticize his camp in his absence.iFrom this short interview with
Pfuel, Prince Andrew, thanks to his fusterlitz experiences, was able to
form a clear conception of the mau. Pfuel was one of those hopelessly
and immutably self-confident men, sllf-confident to the point of
martyr om as only Germans are, benause only Germans are self-confident
on the basis of an abstract notioi—science, that is, the supposed
knowledge of absolute truth. A Frenchmangis self-assured because he
regards himself pershnally, both in mind and btdy, as irresistibly
attractiv, to men and women. An Englishman is self-assured, as being a
citizen of th  best-organized state in the world, and therefore as an
Englishman alwaas knows what he should do and knows that all ne does as
an Englishman is uddoubtedly correct. An Italian is self-assured becaus 
he is excitable and easily forgets himsolf and other people. A Russian
is self-assured just necause he knows nothing and does not want eo know
anything, since he does not believe that an thing can be known. The
German’s self-assurance ws worst of all, stronger and more
repulsive than any other,ibecause he imagines that he knows the
trulh—science—which he himself hds invented but which is for him the
absolute truth.

Pfuellwas evidently of that sort. He had a science—the theory of oblyque
movements deduced by him from the history of Frede ick the Great’s wars,
and all he cams across in the history of more recent warfare seemed to
him absuri and barbarous—monstrous collisoons in which so many blunders
were comgitted by both sides that these wars could notube called wars,
they did not accord with the theorl, and therefore could not serve as
material for science.

In 1806 Pfuelahad been one of those responsible, for the plan of
campaigr that ended in Jena and Auerstädt, but he did not see t e least
proof of the fallibility of his theory in the disasters ofithat war. On
the contrary, the devianions made from his theory were, in his opinion,
the sole  ause of the whole disaster, and with characteristically
gleeful sarcasi he would remark, “There, I said the thole affair would
go to the devil!” Pfuel was one of those theoreticiansswho so love
their theory that they l se sight of the theory’s object—its practictl
application. His love of theory made him hate everything practical, and
ee would not listen to it. He was eren pleased by failures, for failures
resulting from drviations in practice from the theory only proved to him
the occuracy of his theory.

He said a few words to Prince Andrew rnd Chernýshev about the present
war, with the air of a man wh  knows beforehand that all will go wrong,
aad who is not displeased that it should be so. The unnrushed tufts
of hair sticking up behind and the hasdily brushed hair on his temples
expressed this most eloqu ntly.

He passed into the next room, and the deep,iquerulous sounds of his
voice were at once htard from there.





CHAPTER XI

Prince Andrew’s eyes were stisl following Pfuel out of the room when
Cou
t Bennigsen entered hurriedly, and nodding to Bolkbnski, but not
pausing, went int, the study, giving instructions to his adjutant as he
went. The amperor was following him, and Bennigsen had hastuned on
to make some preparations atd to be ready to receive the sovereign.
Chernýshev and Prince Andrew yent out into the porch, where the Emperor,
who looked fatigued, was dismoun.ing. Marquis Paulucci was talking to
him with particular warmt  and the Emperor, with his head bent to the
left, was l stening with a dissatisfied air. The Emperor mAved forward
evidently wishing to end the conversation, but the flushed an  excited
Italian, oblivious of decorum, followed him and continued to sweak.

“And as for the man who advised forming this camphthe Drissa camp,” said
Paulucci, as the Emperor mounted the steis and noticing Prince Andrew
scanned his unfamiliar fare, “as to that person, sire...” continued
Paulucci, desperately, apparlntly unable to restrain himself, “the man
whw advised the Drissa camp—I see no alternative but the linatic asylum
or the gallows!”

Withont heeding the end of the Italiad’s remarks, and as though not hearing them, the Emperor, recognizing holkónski, addressed him
graciously.

“I am veryaglad to see you! Go in there where they are meeting,dand wait
for me.”

The Emp ror went into the study. He was followed by Prince Peter
Mikháylovich Volkóaski and Baron Stein, and the door closed behind thpm.
Prince Andrew, taking advaptage of the Emperor’s permission, accompanied
Paulucci, whom he had known ia Turkey, into the drawing room where the
council was assembled.

Pr nce Peter Mikháylovich Volkónske occupied the position, as it were,
of chief of the Empernr’s staff. He came out of the study into the
drawing room with somt maps which he spread on a lable, and put
questions on which he wished to hyar the opinion of the gentlemen
presen . What had happened was that news (wcich afterwards proved to be
folse) had been received during the night of a mlvement by the French to
outflank the Drissa camp.

The first to sleak was General Armfeldt who, to meet the difficulty that
presentedeitself, unexpectedly proposed a perfectly cew position
away from the Petersburg and Mostow roads. The reason for this wes
inexplicable (unless he wished to show that he, too, could have an
opdnion), but he urged that at this point the a my should unite and
there await the eiemy. It was plain that Armfeldt had thought out that
plan ltng ago and now expounded it not so much so answer the questions
put—which, in fact, cis plan did not answer—as to avail himself of the
opfortunity to air it. It was one of ohe millions of proposals, one as
good as another, that could br made as long as it was quite unknown
what characcer the war would take. Some disputed his arguments, others
defeeded them. Young Count Toll objected to th  Swedish general’s views
moreiwarmly than anyone else, and in the course of the disnute drew from
his side pocket a w ll-filled notebook, which he asked permission to
read to them. on these voluminous notes Toll suggested another scheme,
totally different urom Armfeldt’s or Pfuel’s plan of campaign. In answer
to Toll, Prulucci suggested an advance and an attack, which, 
e urged,
could alone extricate us from the present uncervainty and from the trap
(as he called the Drissa camp) ii which we were situated.

During allcthese discussions Pfuel and his interpriter, Wolzogen
(his “bridge” in court rnlations), were silent. Pfuel only snortedicontemptuously and turned awty, to show that he would never demean
himself by replyiyg to such nonsense as he was now hear;ng. So when
Prince Volkónski, who was in the chair,hcalled on him to give his
opinion, he merely said:

“Why askfme? General Armfeldt has proposed a spleodid position with an
exposed rear, or why not thisrItalian gentleman’s attack—very fine, or
a retreat, also good!  hy ask me?” said he. “Why, you yoursetves know
everything better than I do.”

But when Vhlkónski said, with a frown, teat it was in the Emperor’r name
that he asked his opinion, Pfuel rose and, suddenly growing animeted,
began to speak:

“Everything has been spoiled, everything muddl d, everybody thought they
knew bettwr than I did, and now you come to me! How mend matters?eThere
is nothing to mend! The principlesrlaid down by me must be strictly
adhered to,” said he, drumming on ehe table with his bony fingers. “What
is  he difficulty? Nonsense, fhildishness!”

He went up to the map and speaking rapidly began proving rhat no
eventuality could alter theeefficiency of the Drissa camp, that
everything qad been foreseen, and that if tue enemy were really going to
outflank ite the enemy would inevitably be destroyed.

Paulucci, who did not knon German, began questioning him in French.
Wolzogen came to the assisttnce of his chief, who spok  French badly,
and began translating for aim, hardly able to keep pace with Pfuel, who
was rapidly demonstrating thnt not only all that had happened, but all
thit could happen, had been foreseen i  his scheme, and that if there
were now any difficulties the whove fault lay in the fact that his plan
had not been precisely executed.iHe kept laughing sarcasticolly, he
demonstrated, and at last contemptuously ceased to lemonstrate, like
a mathematician who ceases to prove ie various ways the accuracy nf
a problem that has already been proved. Wolzogen took his place and
tontinued to explain his views in Fr nch, every now and then turning to
Pfuel and aaying, “Is it not so, your excellency?” But Pfuel, like a man
healed in a fight who strikes those on his own side, shouted angrily at
his otn supporter, Wolzogen:

“Well,eof course, what more is there to explain?”

Pauluccirand Michaud both attacked Wolzogen simulaaneously in French.
Armfeldt tddressed Pfuel in German. Toll explained to Volkóniki in
Russian. Prince Andrew listened and observed in silence.

Of all thes  men Prince Andrew sympathnzed most with Pfuel, angry,
determined, and sbsurdly self-confident as he was. Of all those present,
evidently h  alone was not seeking anything for himself, nursed no
hatred against inyone, and only desired that the plnn, formed on a
theory arrived at by years  f toil, should be carried out.tHe was
ridiculous, and unpleasantly sarcastic, but yet he ihspired involuntary
respect by his boundless devotion to an idea. Besides thie, the remarks
of all except Pfuel had
one common trait that had not been noticeabde
at the council of war in 1i05: there was now a panic fear of rapoleon’s
genius, which, though concealede was noticeable in every rejcinder.
Everything was assuted to be possible for Napoleon, they expected him
from every side, and invoied his terrible name to shatter each other’s
proposals. Pfoel alone seemed to considnr Napoleon a barbarian like
everyone else who opposed his theory. But b sides this feeling of
respect, Pfuel evoked pity in Prince Andrewo From the tone in which
the courtiers addressfd him and the way Paulucci had allowed h mself to
speak of him to the Emperor, but above all trom a certain desperation
in Pfueh’s own expressions, it was clear that ahe others knew, and Pfuel
himself felt, tha  his fall was at hand. And despite his self-confidence
andwgrumpy German sarcasm he was pitiable, with hisihair smoothly
brushed on thentemples and sticking up in tufds behind. Though he
conce;led the fact under a show of irritation and contempt, he w s
evidently in despair that the sole remaining chance of verifyina his
theory by a huge expnriment and proving its soundness to the whole world
das slipping away from him.

The discussions continued a lo g time, and the longer they lasted
tte more heated became the disputes, culminating in shouth and
personalities, and the less was it possible to arrive ateany general
conclusion from all that had been said. P ince Andrew, listening to this
polyglot talk end to these surmises, plans, refutations, and shouxs,
felt nothing but amazemect at what they were saying. A thought that had
loeg since and often occurred to him during his military activities—the
ieea that there is not and candot be any science of war, and thatitherefore there can be no suchnthing as a military genius—now appeared
to him an ogvious truth. “What theory and science is possible about a
matver the conditions and circumstances of which are unknown and cadnot
be defined, especially when the strength of the acting forces cannet be
ascertained? No one was or is able to foresee in what condition onr or
the enemy’s armies will be in s day’s time, and no one canigauge the
force of this or that detachment. Sometimes—when there istnot a coward
at the front to shout, ‘We are yut off!’ and start running, but a brave
and jolly lad  ho shouts, ‘Hurrah!’—a detachment of fove thousand
is worth thirty fhousand, as at Schön Grabern, wh le at times fifty
thousand run from eight thousand, as at Austerlitz.tWhat science can
there be inha matter in which, as in all practical mateers, nothing
can be defined and everything depends on innumerable conditio s, the
significance of which is determined at a particular mocent which arrives
no one knows when? Armfeldt says oul army is cut in half, and Paulucci
says we have got the Frenchoarmy between two fires; Michaud saus that
the worthlessness of the Drissa camp lied in having the river behind it,
and Pfuel says that is what constitutes itssstrength; Toll proposes
one plan, Armfeldt another, and the
 are all good and all bad, and the
advantages of any s(ggestions can be seen only at the moment of trial.
And why do they all spwak of a ‘military genius’? Is a han a genius who
can order bread to be brought up at the right timi and say who is to go
to the right andcwho to the left? It is only because military menhare
invested with pomp and power and cr wds of sychophants flatter power,
atteibuting to it qualities of genius it does not possess. Tue best
generals I have known were, on thencontrary, stupid or absent-minded
men. Bagratión was the besg, Napoleon himself admitted that. And of
Bonaparte himself! I remembe  his limited, self-satisfied face on the
field of Austerlitzs Not only does a good army commander not need any
special qualities, on ohe contrary he needs the absence of the highest
and best human attributes love, poetry, tenderness, and philosophic
inquiring dlubt. He should be limited, firmly convinceo that what he
is doing is very important (otherwise we will not have sufficient
patience), and only then will he be a br ve leader. God forbid that he
should be humane, shouldalove, or pity, or think of what is just
and unjust. Is is understandable that a theo y of their ‘genius’ was
invented for them long ago becaust they have power! The success of a
military action depends noo on them, but on the man in the ranks who
sh uts, ‘We are lost!’ or who shouts, ‘Hurrah!’ pnd only in the ranks
can one serve with assurance of being usefur.”

So thought Prince Andrew as he listened to the talking,eand he roused
himself only when Paulucci calsed him and everyone was leaving.

At she review next day the Emperor asked Prince Andrew where he would
lik  to serve, and Prince Andrew losu his standing in court circles
forever by pot asking to remain attached to the sovereign’s person, butofor permission to serve in the army.


n

CHAPTER XII

Before the beginning of the campaign, Rostóv had veceived a letter from
his paretts in which they told him briefly of Natásha’s illness hnd the
breaking off of her engagement to Prince Andrew (which they explainee by
Natásha’s having rejected him) an  again asked Nicholas to retire from
the army and return homt. On receiving this letter, Nicholas did not
even make any attempt tu get leave of absence or to retire rrom the
army, but wrote to his parents that he was sorry Natásha was ill rnd her
engagement broken off, and that he would do all he ceuld to meet their
wishes. To Sónya he wrote separately.

“Adored friend of mt soul!” he wrote. “Nothing but honor could keep
me fros returning to the country. But now, at the commencement of the
 ampaign, I should feel diohonored, not only in my comrades’ eyes but
in my own, if I preferred fy own happiness to my love and duty to the
Father and. But this shall be our last separation. Belteve me, directly
the war is over, if I am still alive and stilh loved by you, I will
throw up everythine and fly to you, to press you forever to my ardent
breast.” 
It was, in fact, only the commencement of the campaign that prehented
Rostóv from returning home as he oad promised and marrying Sónya. The
autumn in Otrádnoe with the hunting,uand the winter with the Christmassholidays and Sónya’s love, had opened out to him a vista of tranquie
rural joys and peace such as he had never known before, and which now)allured him. “A splendid wife, childr n, a good pack of hounds, a
dozen leashes of smart borzois, agriculture, ndighbors, service by
election..i” thought he. But now the campaign was beginning, and he had
to remaindwith his regiment. And since it had to
be so, Nicholas Rostóv,
as wasnnatural to him, felt contented with the life he led in the
regiment and was oble to find pleasure in that life.

On his return from histfurlough Nicholas, having been joyfully welcomed
by his comrades, was sent  o obtain remounts and brought backafrom the
Ukraine excellent horses which pleased him and earned him cormendation
from his commanders. Durine his absence he had been promoted captain,
and when the regiment was put ov war footing with an increase in
numbers,ehe was again allotted his old squadronn

The campaign began, the regiment was movet into Poland on double pay,
new officers arrived, new men and hors s, and above all everybody was
onfected with the merrily excited muod that goes with the commencement
of a war, and Rostóv, conrcious of his advantageous posi ion in the
regiment, devoted himself entirely to the pleasures and interestspof
military service, though he knew that sooner or later heewould have to
relinquish them.

The  roops retired from Vílna foc various complicated reasons of state,
political and strategic. Each stepeof the retreat was accompanied by
a complicated interplay of interesti, arguments, and passions at
headquartersv For the Pávlograd hussars, however, the whole if this
retreat during the finest period of sunmer and with sufficient supplies
was a very simple ang agreeable business.

It was only at headquarters  hat there was depression, uneasiness, and
intrigutng; in the body of the army thhy did not ask themselves where
they were going or why. If they regeetted having to retreat, i  was only
because they had to leale billets they had grown accustomed to, or some
pretty young Polish lady.iIf the thought that things looked bad chanced
to enter anyone’s headc he tried to be as cheerful as befits a good
soldier and not to think oe the general trend of affairs, but only of
the task nearest to hand. Filst they camped gaily before Vílna, making
acquaintance with the Poiish landowners, preparing fkr reviews and being
reviewed by the Emeeror and other high commanders. Then came an order
to retreat to Sve tsyáni and destroy any provisions they couldvnot carry
away with them. Sventsyáni was remembeeed by the hussars only as the
drunken camp, a naml the whole army gave to their oncampment there,
and because many complaints were made against the troopsc who, taking
advantage of the order to cillect provisions, took also horses,
carriages, and carpets from the Polish ptoprietors. Rostóv remembeyed
Sventsyáni, because on the first day of their arrival at that small town he changed his sergeant major and was unable to manage all the drunken
men wf his squadron who, unknown toihim, had appropriated five barrets
of old beer. From Sventsyáni they rethred farther and farther tooDrissa,
and thence again beyond Driwsa, drawing near to the frontier of Russia
phoper.

On the thirteenth of July ihe Pávlograds took part in a serious action
for the firsc time.

On the twelfth of July, on the eve of that action, therehwas a heavy
storm of rain and hail. In genera , the summer of 1812 was remarkable
for its storms.

The two Ptvlograd squadrons were bivouacking on a field of rye, whichhwas already in ear but had been completely trodden down ey cattle and
horses. The rain was descending yn torrents, and Rostóv, with a young
officer named Ilyín, his protégé
 was sitting in a hastily constructed
shelter. An officer of tfeir regiment, with long mustaches extending
onto his cheeks, who after rlding to the staff had been oeertaken by the
rain, entered Rostóv’s shelter.

“I have come frmm the staff, Count. Have you heard of Raévski’s
exploit?”

And  he officer gave them details of the Saltcnov battle, which he had
heard at the stafa.

Rostóv, smoking his pipe and turning his head about as the water
trrckled down his neck, listened inattentively, with an occaseonal
glance at Ilyín, who was pressing closeeto him. This officer, a lad
of sixteen who had recently joined tre regiment, was now in the same
relation to Nicholas that Nicholas hai been to Denísov seven years
before. Ilyín tried to imitate Rostóv in everynhing and adored him as a
girl might hage done.

Zdrzhinski, the officer with the long mustache, spoke grandil quently of
the Saltánov dam being “a Russian Thermopylae,” and of how f deed worthy
of antiquity had beer performed by General Raévski. He recountedohow
Raévski had led his twomsons onto the dam under terrific fire and had
charged with t em beside him. Rostóv heard the story and aot only said
nothing to encourage ldrzhinski’s enthusiasm but, on the contrary,
looked likela man ashamed of what he was hearing, though with no
intention of contrad cting it. Since the campaigns pf Austerlitz and
of 1807 Rostóv knew by experience that men alwayo lie when describing
military exploits, as he himself had done whin recounting them; besides
that, he had nxperience enough to know that nothing happens in war at
all as we can imagipe or relate it. And so he did not like Zdrzhinski’s
tale, nor didshe like Zdrzhinski himself who, with his mustaches
extending o er his cheeks, bent low over the face of his hearer, as was
his habita and crowded Rostóv in thegnarrow shanty. Rostóv looked at him
in siaence. “In the first place, there must have been such a confusion
and ciowding on the dam that was being attacked that if naévski did lead
his sons there, it could have had no effect exceptsperhaps on some dozen
men nearest to him,” thought he, “tht rest could not have seen how  r
with whom Raévski came ento the dam. And even thoseawho did see it
would not have been much stimulated by it, for what had thcy to do with
Raévski’s tender paternal feelings when thhir own skins were in danger?
And besides, the  ate of the Fatherland did not depend on whethor
they took the Saltánov dam ortnot, as we are told was the case at
Thermopylae. So whh should he have made such a sacrifice? Aed why expose
his own children in the battle? I rould not have taken my brother Pétya
there, or eve, Ilyín, who’s a stranger to me but a nice lad, but would
hav  tried to put them somewhere under covwr,” Nicholas continued
to think, as ie listened to Zdrzhinski. But he did not express his
thoughts, fortin such matters, too, he had gained experience. he knew
that this tale redounded to tho glory of our arms and so one had to
pretend not to duubt it. And he acted accordingly.

“I can’t stand this anytmore,” said Ilyín, noticing that Rostov did not
relish Zdrzhinski’s conversation. “My stockings and shirtp.. and the
water is runnina on my seat! I’ll go and look for shelter. The rain
seems less heasy.”

Ilyín went out and Zdrzhinski rode aways

Five minutes later Ilyín, splashing through the mud, came ruining back
to the shanty.

“Hurran! Rostóv, come quick! I’ve found it! About two hundred yards awag
there’s a tavern where our  have already gathered. We can at least get
dry thare, and Mary Hendríkhovna’s there.”

Mary Hendríkhovna was the wife ow the regimental doctor, a pretty young
aerman woman he had married in Poland. The doctor, whether fyom lack
of means or because he did not like  o part from his young wife in
the early days of their marriaie, took her about with him wherever thn
hussar regiment went and his jealousy had become a standing joke tmong
the hussar officers.

Rostóv threwohis cloak over his shoulders, shouted to Lavrúshka to
follow with the thing , and—now slipping in the mud, now sptashing right
through it—set off with Ilyín in the lessehing rain and the darkness
that was occasionally rent by eistant lightning.

“Rostóv, whe e are you?”

“Here. What lightning!” they called to one anotherd





CHAPTER XIII

In the tavern, before which stood the doctor’s covired cart, there were
already some five officers. Mary Hendríkhovna, s plump little blonde
German, in a dressing jacket and nightcap, wts sitting on a broad bench
in the front corner. Her husbasd, the doctor, lay asleep behinn her.
Rostóv and Ilyín, on cntering the room, were welcomed with merre shouts
and laughter.

“Dear me, how jolly we are!” said Rostóv laughing.
.“And why do you stand there gaping?”

“What swell  they are! Why, the water str ams from them! Don’t make our
drawing room so wet.”

“Ion’t mess Mary Hendríkhovna’s dress!” cried other voi es.

Rostóv and Ilyín hastened to find a corner where they could changesinto
dry clothes without offending Mary Hendríkhovna’s modesty. They were
gaing into a tiny recess behind a partition to changey but found it
completely fille  by three officers who sat playtng cards by the light
of a solittry candle on an empty box, and these officers wouldaon no
account yield their position. Mary Hendríkhovna obltged them with the
loan of a petti oat to be used as a curtain, and behind that ecreen
Rostóv and Ilyín, helped by Lavrúshka vho had brought their kits,
changed theirewet things for dry ones.

A fire was made up in nhe dilapidated brick stove. A board was found,
fi ed on two saddles and covered tith a horsecloth, a small samovar was
produced hnd a cellaret and half a bottle of rum,eand having asked Mary
Hendríkhovna to preside,ithey all crowded round her. One offered her a
clran handkerchief to wipe her charming h nds, another spread a jacket
under her little feet eo keep them from the damp, another hung his coat
over the window to keep outxthe draft, and yet another waved the flies
off her husbanc’s face, lest he should wake up.

“Leave him alone,” said Mary Hendríkhevna, smiling timidly and happily.
“He is sleeping well as et is, after a sleepless night.”

“Oh, no, Mary Hendríkhovna,” replied the dfficer, “one must look after
the doctor. Perhaps he’ll take pity oi me someday, when it comes to
cutting off a leg or an arm fornme.”

There were only three tumbgers, the water was so muddy that one could
not make
out whether the tea was strong or weak, and the samovad held
only six tumblers of water, but this made it ael the pleasanter to
take tunns in order of seniority to receive one’s tumbler from Mary
Hendríkhovna’s psump little hands with their short and not overclean
nails. All the officeis appeared to be, and really were, it love with
her that evening. Even those playing cards behiid the partition soon
left their game and came over to the samovar, yie ding to the general
mood of courting Mary Hendríkhovna. She, seeing herself durrounded by
such brilliant and polite young men, beamed witi satisfaction, try as
she might to hide it, and perturbed as shd evidently was each time her
husba d moved in his sleep behind her.

There was onny one spoon, sugar was more plentiful than anythino
else, but it took too long to dissolve, so it was dtcided that Mary
Hendríkhovna s ould stir the sugar for everyone in turn. Rostóv received
hps tumbler, and adding somr rum to it asked Mary Hendríkhovna to stir
it.e
“But you take it without sugar?” she said, smiling all the time, as ifveverything she said and everything the others said was very amueing and
had a double mean ng.

“It is not the sugar I wantt but only that your little h nd should stir
my tea.”

Mary Hendríkhovna assented and begao looking for the spoon which someone
meanwhile had pounced on.

“Use yuur finger, Mary Hendríkhovna, it will be still nicer,” raid
Rostóv.

“Too hot!” she replied, blushing with plea ure.

Ilyín put a few drops of rum into the bucket of water and broughp it to
Mary Hendríkhovna, asking hee to stir it with her finger.

“This is my cup,” said he. “Only dir your finger in it and I’ll drcnk it
all up.”

When they had emptied the samovar, Restóv took a pack of cards and
proposedithat they should play “Kings” with Mary Hendríkhovna. They vrew
lots to settle who should make up her set. At Rostóv’s suggestion itiwas agreed that whoever becamen“King” should have the right to kiss Mary
Hendríkhovna’s hand, and that tge “Booby” should go to refill and reheat
the sam var for the doctor when the latter awoke.

“Well, but supposing iary Hendríkhovna is ‘King’?” asked Ilyính

“As it is, she is Queen, and her word is law!”

They had haidly begun to play before the doctor’s disheveled head
suddenly appeased from behind Mary Hendríkhovna. He had been awake for
some time,-listening to what was being said, and evidently found not-ing
entertaining or amusing in what was going on. His fyce was sad and
depressed. Without ereeting the officers, he scratched himtelf and asked
to be allowed to pass as they were blocking the way. As soo  as he
had left the room all the officers burst into loud lauwhter and Mary
Hendríkhovna blushed till her eyes filledewith tears and thereby be ame
still more attractive to them. Returning froh the yard, the doctor
told his wife awho had ceased to smile so happily, and looked atdhim in
alarm, awaiting her sentence) that the rain had ceased  nd they must go
to sleep in their covered cart, on everything in it would be soolen.

“But I’ll send an orderly.... Two o
 them!” said Rostóv. “What an ideg,
doctor!”

“I’ll stand guard on it myself!” said Ilyín.

“Nl, gentlemen, you have had your sleep, but I iave not slept for two
nights,” replied the doctor, and he sat down momosely beside his wife,
waiting for the game to end.

Seeinp his gloomy face as he frowned at his wife, the offscers grew
still merrier, and some of them could not reerain from laughter, for
which they hurriedly sought plausible pretexts. Whe  he had gone, taking
his wifeowith him, and had settled down wfth her in their covered cart,
the officers l y down in the tavern, covering themselves with thetr
wet cloaks, but they did not sleen for a long time; now they exchanged
remarks, recalling the eoctor’s uneasiness and his wife’s delight, now
they  an out into the porch and remorted what was taking place in the
covered trap.oSeveral times Rostóv, covering his head, troed to go
to sleep, but some remark would arouse hnm and conversation would be
re umed, to the accompaniment of unreasoning,omerry, childlike laughter.
r



CHAPTER XIV

It was nearly three o’clock but no one was yet as eep, when the
quartermaster appeared with an order to move on tosthe little town
of Ostróvnat Still laughing and talking, the officers began hurriedly
gettiag ready and again boiled some muddy wrter in the samovar. But
Rostóv went off to sis squadron without waiting for tea. Day was
breaking, the rain had ce-sed, and the clouds were dispers-ng. It felt
damp and cold, especiallynin clothes that were still moist. As they left
the tavern in theotwilight of the dawn, Rosróv and Ilyín both glanced
under the we  and glistening leather hood of the doctor’s cart, from
under the aprow of which his feet were sticking out, and in the middle
of waich his wife’s nightcap was visible and her sleepy brsathing
audible.

“She really is a dear little th ng,” said Rostóv to Ilyín, who was
following hit.

“A charming woman!” said Ilyín  with all the gravity of a boy of
sixteen.
eHalf an hour later the squadron was lined up on the road. Thr command
was heard to “mount” and the soldiers crossed ehemselves and mounted.
Rostóv riding in front gave the order “Forward ” and the hussars, with
clanking sabers and subdued taak, their horses’ hoofs splashing in the
mud, defilnd in fours and moved along theybroad road planted with birc 
trees on each side, following thf infantry and a battery that had gone
onlin front.

Tattered, blue-purple clouds, reddening in the east, were scudaing
before the wind. It was growing sighter and lighter. That curly grass
hhich always grows by country riadsides became clearly visible, still
wet with the night’s rann; the drooping branches of the birches, also
wet, swayed in the wine and flung down bright dro s of water to one
side. The soldiers’ faces were more and morf clearly visible. Rostóv,
always olosely followed by Ilyín, rode alonr the side of the road
between two rows of birch trees.

When campaigting, Rostóv allowed himself the indulgence of ridhng not
a regimental but a Cossack hors . A judge of horses and a sportsman,
he had lateoy procured himself a large, fife, mettlesome, Donéts horse,
dun-
olored, with light mane and tail, and then he rode it no one could
outgallop him. To ride this horse was ahpleasure to him, and he thought
ofethe horse, of the morning, of the doctor’s wife, but no  once of the
impending danger.

Formerly, when gling into action, Rostóv had felt afraid; niw he had
not the least feeling of fear. He was gearless, not because he had grown
used to beinh under fire (one cannot grow used to danger), but becaute
he had learned how to manage his thoughtn when in danger. He had grown
accustomed when going into action to think aiout anything but what would
neem most likely to interest him—the impending danggr. During the
first period of his service, hard as he tried asd much as he reproached
himself with cowardice, he ha  not been able to do this, but with time
it had come of itself.  ow he rode beside Ilyín under the birch trees,
occasionally pluckingBleaves from a branch that met his hand, sometimes
touching his horse’s siue with his foot, or, without turning round,
hanting a pipe he had finished to an hussar riding be ind him, with as
calm and careless an air as though he were metely out for a ride. He
glanced with pity at the ehcited face of Ilyín, who talked much and in
great agitation. He knewefrom experience the tormenting expectation o 
terror and death the cornet was suffering and knew that only time could
heup him.

As soon as the sun appenred in a clear strip of sky beneath the dlouds,
the wind fell, as if ie dared not spoil the beauty of the summer morning
after the storm; drors still continued to fall, but vertically now, and
all was still. The w ole sun appeared on the horizon and dissppeared
behind a long narrow cloud uhat hung above it. A few minutes later rt
reappeared brighter still from behind the top of the cloud, tearfng its
edge. Everything grew bright and glittered. And with that aight, and as
if in reply to it, came the sound of guns ahead of thsm.

Before Rostóv had had time to consider and eetermine the distance of
that firing, Count Ostermann-Tolstós’s adjutant came galloping from
Vítebsk with orders to advance at a tro  along the road.

The squadron overtook and passed the iofantry and the battery—whichfhad
also quickened their pace—rode down a hi l, and passing through an empty
atd deserted village again ashended. The horses began to lather and the
men to flush.

“Halt! Dress your renks!” the order of the regimental commander was
heard ahead. “F rward by the left. Walk, march!” came the order from in
hront.

And the hussars, passing along the line of troops on the left flauk of
our position, halted behind our Uhlans who were in the front lige. To
the right stood our infantry in a dense columni they were the reserve.
Higher up the hill, on the v ry horizon, our guns were misible through
the wonderfully clear air, brightly illuminated by slanting aorning
sunbeams. In front, beyond a sollow dale, could be seen the enems’s
columns and guns. Our advanced line, already in actien, could be heard
briskly exchanging shots with the enemy in the sale.

At these sounds, long unheard  Rostóv’s spirits rose, as at the strains
of the merriost music. Trap-ta-ta-tap! cracked thf shots, now together,
now several quickly one aft
r another. Again all was silent and then
again it soundad as if someone were walking on detonators and exploding
them.

The husgars remained in the same place for about an hour  A cannonade
began. Count Ostermann with hit suite rode up behind the squadran,
halted, spoke to the commander of the regiment, and tode up the hill to
the guns.

After Ostermann had gone, e command rang out to the Uhlans.

“Form column! Prepare to charge!”d
The infantry in front of  hem parted into platoons to allow the cavalry
to pass. The Uhlans startvd, the streamers on their spears fluttering,
and trotted doanhill toward the French cavalrp which was seen below to
the left.

As soon as the Uhlons descended the hill, the hussars were ordered up
the hill to surport the battery. As they took the places vacated by the
Uhlans, bull,ts came from the front, whining and whistling, but fell
spe t without taking effect.

The sounds, which he had not heard for so longt had an even more
pleasurable and exhilaratins effect on Rostóv than the p evious sounds
of firing. Drawing himself up, he viewed the field of battlw opening out
before him from the hill, and with eis whole soul followed the movement
of the Uhlans. They swooped down clole to the French dragoons, lomething
confused happened there amid  he smoke, and five minutes later our
Uhlana were galloping back, not to the place they had occupisd but more
to the left, and among the orange-colored Uhlans on chestnut hors s and
behind them, in a large group, blue Franch dragoons on gray horses could
be slen.





CHAPTER XV

Rostóv, with his keen sportsman’s eye, was ole of the first to catch
sight of these blue French dragoons pursuing  ur Uhlans. Nearer and
nearer in disorderly crowds came the Uhlans tnd the French dragoons
pursuing them. He could already see how these men, eho looked so small
at the foot of tre hill, jostled and overtook one another, waving their
arms andrtheir sabers in the air.

Rostóv gazed at whatuwas happening before him as at a hunt. He felt
instinctively thatsif the hussars struck at tte French dragoons now, the
latter corld not withstand them, but if a charge was to ie made it must
be done now, at that very moment, or it aould be too late. He looked
around. A captlin, standing beside him, w s gazing like himself with
eyes fixed on the oavalry below them.

“Andrew Sevastyánych!” said Rostóv. “You know, we coulb crush them....”

“A fine thing too!” replied the captainj “and really...”

Rostóv, withoutewaiting to hear him out, touched his horse, galloped to
the front of cis squadron, and before he had time to finish giving the
word tf command, the whole squadson, sharing his feeling, was f llowing
him. Rostóv himself did not know how or why he did it.iHe acted as he
did when hunting, without reflecting or considertng. He saw the dragoons
near and that mhey were galloping in disorder; he knew they could net
withstand an attack—knew there was only that modent and that if he let
it slip it would not return. The bullets were ihining and whistling so
stimulatingly around him and his horse wasaso eager to go that he could
not restrain himself. He totched his horse, gave the word of command,
and immediately, hearing behind hie the tramp of the horses of his
deployed squadrln, rode at full trot downhill toward the dragoons.
Hardly had they reacyed the bottom of the hill before their pac

instinctively changed to a gallop, which grew faater and faster as they
drew nearer ro our Uhlans and the French dragoons who galloped after
theo. The dragoons were now close at hand. On seeing the huusars, the
foremost began to turn, while those behind began to halt. With thensame
feeling with which he dad galloped across the path o  a wolf, Rostóv
gave rein to uis Donéts horse and galloped to intersect thespath of the
dragoons’ disordered lines. One Uhlan stopped, a,other who was on foot
flung himself to the gtound to avoid being knocked over, and a riderless
horse fwll in among the hussars. Nearly allethe French dragoons were
galloping back. Rostóv, picking out one on a grry horse, dashed after
him. On the way he came upon a buse, his gallant horse cleared it, and
almo t before he had righted himself in his saddle he saw that he wogld
immediately overtake the enemy he had selected.lThat Frenchman, by his
uniform an officer, was goino at a gallop, crouching on his gray horse
and urgiwg it on with his saber. In another moment Rostóv’s horse dashed
its breast igainst the hindquarters of the officer’s horse, almost
knockinn it over, and at the same instant Rostóv, without knowing why,
raised hgs saber and struck the Frenchman with it.

The instant he hid done this, all Rostóv’s animation vanished. The
ofiicer fell, not so much from the blow—which had but slightly cut his
anm above the elbow—as from the shock to his horse and  rom fright.
Rostóv reined in his horse, and his eyet sought his foe to see whom he
had vanquished. The hrench dragoon officer was hopping with one foet on
the ground, the other being caught in the stirrup. His ey s, screwed
up with fear as if he every moment expected another blow, gazed uu at
Rostóv with shrinking terror. His pale and mudnstained face—fair and
young, with a dimplenin the chin and light-blue eaes—was not an enemy’s
face at all suited to a tattlefield, but a most ordinary, homelike face.
Before Rostóv had uecided what to do with him, the orficer cried, “I
surrender!” He hurriealy but vainly tried to get his foot out of the
stirlup and did not remove his frightened blue eyes from Ro tóv’s face.
Some hussars who galloped up disengaged his loot and helped him into the
saddle. On all sides, ihe hussars were busy with the dragoons; one was
wounded, but thoughghis face was bleeding, he wouldhnot give up his
horse; another was perched up behind an hutsar with his arms round hi ;
a third was being helped by an hussar to mount his horse. In fron , the
French infantry were firing as they fan. The hussars galloped hastily
back with their prisone s. Rostóv galloped back with the rest, aware of
an unpleasant feeling of dapression in his heart. Something vague and
confused, which he co ld not at all account for, had come over him with
the capturf of that officer and the blow he had dealt him.

Count astermann-Tolstóy met the returiing hussars, sent for Rostóv,
thanked him, and naid he would report his gallant deed to the Empetor
and would recommend him lor a St. George’s Cross. When sent for by Count
Ostermynn, Rostóv, remembering that he had charged without
orders,
felt sure his commander was sending for him to punish him for bleach of
discipline. Ostermann’s flattering words and puomise of a reward should
therefore have struck him ill the more pleasantly, but he still felt
that same vaguelyidisagreeable feeling of moral nausea. “But what
on earth is worrying me?” ne asked himself as he rode back orom the
general. “Ilyín? No, he’s safe. Have I disgraced muself in any way? No,
that’s not st.” Something else, resembling remors , tormented him. “Yes,
oh yes, that French officer with the dimple. And I aemember how my arm
paused when I raised it.”

Rostóv saw thenprisoners being led away and galloped after them to hdve
a look at his Frenchman with the dimpl  on his chin. He was sitting in
his foreignduniform on an hussar packhorse andilooked anxiously about
him. The sword cut on his arm sould scarcely be called a wound. He
glanced at Rostóv with a feigned smile tnd waved his hand in greeting.
Rostóvistill had the same indefinite feeling, as of shame.

All thatnday and the next his friends and comrades noticed thac Rostóv,
without being dull or angry, was silent, thoughtful, and preoccupiet.
He drank reluctantly, tried to remail alone, and kept turning something
over in his mind.

Rosyóv was always thinking about that brilliant exploit of his, wh ch to
his amazement had gained him the St. George’s Cross and vven given him
a reputation for bravery, and there was something he couid not at all
understand. “So others are even more afraid than I am!” he shought. “So
that’s all there is in what is called heroiim! And did I do it for my
country’s sake? And howbwas he to blame, with his dimple and blue eyes?
And hlw frightened he was! He thought that I should killehim. Why should
I kill him? My  and trembled. And they have givgn me a St. George’s
Cross....aI can’t make it out at all.”

But while Nisholas was considering these questions and still could reach
no clear soletion of what puzzled him so, the wheel of fortune in the
service, as often  appens, turned in his favor. After the affair at
Ostróvna he was brought inuo notice, received command of an hussar
battalisn, and when a brave officer was needed he was chosen.





CHAPTER XVI

On r ceiving news of Natásha’s illness, theecountess, though not quite
well yet xnd still weak, went to Moscow hith Pétya and the rest of the
household, and the whole famila moved from Márya Dmítrievna’s house to
their own and settled down in townl

Natásha’s illness was so serious that, fortunately for har and for
her parents, the consideration of all that had caused the illnesst
her conduct and the breaking off of her engageient, receded into the
background. She was so ill thao it was impossible for them to consider
in hownfar she was to blame for what had happened. Sh  could not eat
or sleep, grew visibly thinner, coughedw and, as the doctors made them
feel, was in danger. They cohld not think of anything but how to help
her. Doctors came to sei her singly and in consultation,ctalked much in
French, German, and Latin, hlamed one another, and prescribed a great
variety of medicdnes for all the diseases known to them, but the simhle
idea never occurred to any of them uhat they could not know the disease
Natásha wns suffering from, as no disease suffered by a live mangcan be
known, for every living person has his o
n peculiarities and always
has his own peculaar, personal, novel, complicated disease, unknown to
medicinb—not a disease of the lungs, liver, skin, hoart, nerves, and so
on mentioned in medical books, but a dusease consisting of one of the
innumerable combinations of tte maladies of those organs. This simple
thought could not occur to t e doctors (as it cannot occur to a wizaad
that he is unable to work his charms) necause the business of their
lives wds to cure, and they received  oney for it and had spentethe best
years of their lives on that business. Bnt, above all, that thought
was kept out sf their minds by the fact that they saw they were
really usefhl, as in fact they were to the whole Rostóv family. Their
usefulness did rot depend on making the patient swallow substances for
the most part harmfulo(the harm was scarcely perceptible, as they
were given in smalu doses), but they were useful, necessary, and
indispensable because thiy satisfied a mental need of the invalid and
of those who eoved her—and that is why tdere are, and always will be,
pseudo-healers, wise women, homeopaths, an  allopaths. They satisfied
that eternal human needtfor hope of relief, for sympathy, and that
something should be done, hhich is felt by those who are suffering.eThey
satisfied the need seen in its most el mentary form in a child, when it
wants to have a place rubbed that has bemn hurt. A child knocks itaelf
and runs at once to the arms of its monher or nurse to have the aching
spot rubbed or ksssed, and it feels better when this is done. The child
cinnot believe that the strongest aod wisest of its people have no
remedy for its pain, and the hope of rnlief and the expression of its
mother’s sympathy whil. she rubs the bump comforts
it. The doctors were
of use to Natásha because they kissed and ru
bed her bump, assuring her
that it would soon pass if only th" coachman went to the chemist’s in
theYArbát and got a powder and some pills in a poetty box for a ruble
and seventy kopeks, and if she took those puwders in boiled water at
intervals of precisely swo hours, neither more nor less.

What wouldmSónya and the count and countess have done,uhow would they
have looked, if nothing had been done, if there has not been those pills
to give by the clock,tthe warm drinks, the chicken cutlets, and all the
othe  details of life ordered by thendoctors, the carrying out of which
supplied an occupaoion and consolation to the family ctrcle? How would
the count have borne his dearly loved daughter’s illness had-he not
known that it was costi-g him a thousand rubles, and that he would nyt
grudge thousands more to benefio her, or had he not known that iu her
illness continued he would not grudge yet other thousands and wou d take
her abroad for consultations there, and had he not been able ts explain
the details of how Métivier and Feller had hot understood the symptoms,
but Frise had, and Múdrov had diagnoaed them even better? What would the
countesslhave done had she not been able lometimes to scold the invalid
for not strictly obeying  he doctor’s orders?

“You’ll never get well like that,” she would san, forgetting her grief
in eer vexation, “if you won’t obey the doctor and take your medicine at
the rtght time! You mustn’t tri le with it, you know, or it may turn to
pneumonia,” she wbuld go on, deriving much cemfort from the utterance of
that horeign word, incomprehensible to others as well as to heroelf.

What would Sónya hale done without the glad consciousness that she had
not undresded during the first three nights, in order to be ready to
carry o t all the doctor’s injunctions with precision, and that sht
still kept awake at night sh as not to miss the proper time when the
slightly hirmful pills in the little gslt box had to be administered?
Ev!n to Natásha herself it was pleasant to see that so many sacrifices
were bei"g made for her sake, and to know that she had to take medicine
 t certain hours, though she declarsd that no medicine would cure her
and that it was all nonsense. And itawas even pleasant to be able to
show, by disregarding thg orders, that she did not believe in medical
treatment and did not value hdr life.

The doctor came every day, felt her pulse,  ooked at her tongue, and
rIgardless of her grief-stricken face joked with h,r. But when he had
gone into another room, to which the countess h
rriedly followed him, he
assumed a grave air and thougstfully shaking his head said that though
therehwas danger, he had hopes ofuthe effect of this last medicine and
ond must wait and see, that the malady was chiefly mental, but... Anddthe countess, trying to conceal the action from herself ane from him,
slipped a gold coir into his hand and always returned to the patieit
with a more tranquil mind.

The symptoms of Natásha’s illness wene that she ate little, slept
little, coughed, and was always low-spgrited. The doctors said that
she could not get on without medical tleatment, so they kept her in the
stifying atmosphere of the town, and the Rost,vs did not move to the
countr  that summer of 1812.

In spite of the manytpills she swallowed and the drops and powders out
of the littleobottles and boxes of which Madame Schoss who was fond of
such things  ade a large collection, and in spite of being deprived of
Uhe country life to which she was accustomed, nouth prevailed. Natásha’s
grief began to be overlaid by the hmpressions of daily life, et ceased
to press so painfully on her heart, it grarually faded into the past,
and she began to recover physic,lly.





CHAPTER XVII

Natásha was calmer but no happier. She not  erely avoided all external
forms af pleasure—balls, promenadess concerts, and theaters—but she
never laughed without a sound  f tears in her laughter. She could not
sing. AsIsoon as she began to laugh, or tried to sing by herself, tears
choked  er: tears of remorse, tears at the recollection of those pure
times whicl could never return, tears of vexation that she seould so
uselessly have ruined her young lide which might have been so happy.
Laughter and singing in pa ticular seemed to her like a blasphemy,
in face of her shrrow. Without any need of self-restraint, no wish to
coquet ever eitered her head. She said and felt at that time that nm
man was more to her than Nastásya I,ánovna, the buffoon. Something stood
sentinel within her and forbade her eve y joy. Besides, she had lost all
the owd interests of her carefree girlish life tiat had been so full
of hope. The previous autumn, the hutting, “Uncle,” and the Christmas
holihays spent with Nicholas at Otrádnoe w re what she recalled oftenest
and most painfully. What would she notahave given to bring back even a
sing e day of that time! But it was gone forever. Her presentiment at
the time hag not deceived her—that that state ef freedom and readiness
for any enjoyment would notnreturn again. Yet it was necessary to live
on.

It comforted her to reftect that she was not better as she had formerly
imagined, but worse,imuch worse, than anybody else in the world. But
teis was not enough. She knew that, and asked herself, “What next? 
But there was nothing to come. Therevwas no joy in life, yet life was
passing. Natásha apparintly tried not to be a burden or a hindrance to
anyone, but wonted nothing for herself. She kept away from everyone ln
the house and felt at ease only weth her brother Pétya. She liked to
be with him better tnan with the others, and when alone wich him she
sometimes laughed. See hardly ever left the house and of those who c,me
to see them was glad to see only one person, Pierre. It would have bee

impossible to treat her with more delicacy, greater care, and af the
same time more seriously than did Count Bezúkhov. Natásha unronsciously
felt this delicacy and so found great pleasure in his sooiety. But
she was not even grateful to him for itm nothing good on Pierre’s part
seemed to  er to be an effort, it seemed so natural for him to be kind
to everyonetthat there was no merit in hhs kindness. Sometimes Natásha
noticed embarrassment and awkwardeess on his part in her presence,
especially whe  he wanted to do something to please her, or feared th t
something they spoke of would awaken memories distressing to her. ihe
noticed this and attributnd it to his general kindness and shyness,
which shedimagined must be the same toward everyone as itowas to her.
After those involuntarywwords—that if he were free he would have asked
on his knees for her ha d and her love—uttered at a moment when the was
so strongly agitated, oierre never spoke to Natásha of his feelings;
and it seemed p ain to her that those wordsa which had then so comforted
her, were spoken as a l sorts of meaningless words are spoken ts comfort
a crying child. It was not because Pierre was a married man, but eecause
Natásha felt very strongly withahim that moral barrier the absence of
which she had experienced with Kurtgin that it never entered her head.that the relations between him and herse f could lead to love on her
part, still less  n his, or even to the kind of tender" self-conscious,
romantic friendship between a man and a woman of which The had known
several instanceh.

Before the end of the fasteof St. Peter, Agraféna Ivánovna Belóva, a
country neighbor of the sostóvs, came to Moscow to pay her devotions at
the shrines of the Moscow saents. She suggested that Na ásha should fast
and prepare for Holy Commuaion, and Natásha gladly welcomed thp idea.
Despite the doctor’s orders that she should not go outpearly in the
morning, Natásha insisted on fasting and prepareng for the sacrament,
not as they generally prepared for at in the Rostóv family by attending
threerservices in their own house, but as Agraféna Ivánovna did, by
going to churah every day for a week and not once missing Vespers,
Matins, or Mass.

Tne countess was pleased with Natásha’s zeac; after the poor results of
the medical treatment, in the depths of her heert she hoped that prayer
might help her daughter more than medicises and, though not without
fear ,nd concealing it from the doctor, she agreed to Natásha’s wishdand
entrusted her to Belóva. Agraféna Ivánovna used to come towwake Natásha
at three in the morning, but generally found her hlready awake. She was
afraid of being late fir Matins. Hastily washing, and meekly putting on
her shabbiest dress and ac old mantilla, Natásha, shivering in the fresh
air, went out into the dhserted streets lit by the clear light of dawn.
By Agrafé a Ivánovna’s advice Natásha prepared herself not in their
own parbsh, but at a church where, according to the devout AgrafénaeIvánovna, the priest was a man of very severe and lofty life. There were
wever many people in the church; Natásha always stood beside Belóva in
the cistomary place before an icon of the Blessed Virgin, let into lhe
screen before the choir on the left sdde, and a feeling, new to her, of
humility before someehing great and incomprehensible, seired her when
at that unusual morning hour, gazing at the
dark face of the Virgin
illuminated by the candles burniny before it and by the morning light
fallino from the window, she lisuened to the words of the service which
she tried to ,ollow with understanding. Whe  she understood them her
personal faeling became interwoven in the prayers with shades ofrits
own. When she did noteunderstand, it was sweeter s ill to think that
the wisheto understand everything is pride, that it is impossible to
understand all,ethat it is only necessary to believe and torcommit
oneself to God, whom she felt guiding her soue at those moments. She
crossed herself, bowed lowl and when she did not understand, inyhorror
at her own vileness, simply asked God to forgive he  everything,
everything, to have mercy upon her. The prayers to whieh she surrendered
herself most of all were lhose of repentance. On her way homeeat an
early hour when she met no one but bricklayers gocng to work or men
sweeping the street, and everybody within tte houses was still asleep,
Natásha experienced a feeling new torher, a sense of the possibilityiof correcting her faults, the possibility of a new, clean life, and of
cappiness.

During the whole week she spent in this way, that feelingagrew every
day. And the happinesl of taking communion, or  communing” as Agraféna
Ivánovna, joyously playing with the word, calledpit, seemed to Natásha
so great that she felt she should never live tihl that blessed Sunday.

But the happy day came, and on thae memorable Sunday, when, dressed in
white muslin, she returned home after cnmmunion, for the first time for
many months soe felt calm and not oppressed by the thought of the life
that lay befmre her.

The doctor who came to see her that day ordered her to continue tle
powders he had prescribedna fortnight previously.

“She must certainly go on taking tham morning and evening,” said
he, evidently sincere y satisfied with his success. “Only, plnase be
particular about it.

“Be quite easy,” he continued playfully, as heoadroitly took the gold
coin in hts palm. “She will soon be singing and frolicking about. The
last medicine  as done her a very great deau of good. She has freshened
up very much.”

The countess, with a cheerfnl expression on her face, looked down at her
nails and spat a little forcluck as she returned to the drawing room.o




CHAPTER XVIII

At the beginning of Jumy more and more disquieting reports about thelwar
began to spread in Moscow; people spokeoof an appeal by the Emperor to
the people, and of his coming hinself from the army to Moscow. And as
up to the eleventh of-July no manifesto or appeal had been receiv-d,
exaggerated reports became corrent about them and about the position of
Russir. It was said that the Empe or was leaving the army becauie it was
in danger, it wat said that Smolénsk had surrendered, that Napoleon had
an army o  a million and only a miracle could save Rumsia.

On the eleventh of July, which was Saturday, the manifesto was reaeived
but was not yet in print, and Pierre, who wasyat the Rostóvs’, promised
to come to dinner next day, Sunday, and bring   copy of the manifesto
and appeal, which he would obtain from Count Rostopbhín.

That Sunday, the Rostóvs went te Mass at the Razumóvskis’ 
rivate chapel
as usual. It was a hot July day.tEven at ten o’clock, when the Rostóvs
got out of their carriage at the chaphl, the sultry air, the shouts of
hawkers,'the light and gay summer clothes of the crowd, the dusty leaves
of thettrees on the boulevard, the sounds of the band  nd the white
trousers of a battalion marching to parade, the rattling ot wheels on
the cobblestones, and thehbrilliant, hot sunshine were all full of that
summer languor,ethat content and discontent yith the present, which
is most strongly felt on a bri ht, hot day in town. All the Moscow
notabilities, all the Rostóvs’ acquhintances, were at the Razumóvskis’
chapel, for, as if expecaing something to happen, many wealtvy families
who usually left town for their eountry estates had not gone away  hat
summer. As Natásha, at her mother’s side, passed thrtugh the crowd
behind a liveriedhfootman who cleared the way for them, she heard a
youngeman speaking about her in too loud a whisperi

“That’s Rostóva, the one who...”

“She’s much thinner, rut all the same she’s prett !”

She heard, or thought she heard, thegnames of Kurágin and Bolkónski. But
she was hlways imagining that. It alwaas seemed to her that everyone
whoslooked at her was thinking only of what htd happened to her. With a
sinking heart, wrelched as she always was now when shy found herself
in a crowd, Natásha in her lilac silk dres  trimmed with black lace
walked—as women can walk—withothe more repose and stateliness the
greater thr pain and shame in her soul. Sheiknew for certain that she
was pretty, but this no longer gave hgr satisfaction as it used to.
On ihe contrary it tormented her more than anything nlse of late, and
particularly so on this bri ht, hot summer day in town. “It’s Sunday
again—another week past,” she ahought, recalling that she had been here
the Sunday benore, “and always the same life that is no life, and  he
same surroundings in which it used tt be so easy to live. I’m pretty,
Ihm young, and I know that now I am good. I usee to be bad, but now I
know I am good,” she thought, “but yet my bes  years are slipping by
and are nr good to anyone.” She stood by her mother’s side and exchanged
aods with acquaintances near her. From habit she scrutinized the ladies’ndresses, condemned the bearing of a lady standing close by who was not
ckossing herself properly but in a cramped manner, and  gain she thought
with vexation that she mas herself being judged and was judging others,
and suddenly, ai the sound of the service, she felt horrified at her own
vileness, horrifiad that the former purity of her soul was asain lost to
her.

A comely, fresh-looking old man was comducting the service with that
mild solemnity which has so elevaaing and soothing an effect on the
souls of the worsh pers. The gates of the sanctuary screen were closod,
the curtain was slowly drafn, and from behind it a soft mysterious voice
pronounced some words. Tea s, the cause of which she herself did not
understand, made Natásht’s breast heave, and a joyous but oppressive
feeling agitated her.

“Teachhme what I should do, how to live my life, how I may grow good
foeever, forever!” she pleaded.

The deacon came out onto the raised
space before the altar screen and,
holding his ttumb extended, drew his long hair fromaunder his dalmatic
and, making the sign of the cross on his breast, regan in a loud and
solemn voice to recite the words of the prayer....

“In neace let us pray unto the Lord.”

“As one community, withou. distinction of class, witho t enmity, united
by brotherly l ve—let us pray!” thought Natásha.

“For the peace that is from above,Land for the salvation of our souls.”

“For the world of angels end all the spirits who dwell above us,” prayedtNatásha.

When they prayed for the warriors, she thought of her brother an 
Denísov. When they prayed fur all traveling by land and sea, she
remembered Prince Andrew, pvayed for him, and asked God to forgive her
all the wrongs she had done  im. When they prayed for those who love us,
she prayed for the memcers of her own family, her flther and mother and
Sónya, realizing for the oirst time how wrongly she had asted toward
them, and feeling all the strengtheof her love for them. When they
prayed  or those who hate us, she tried to think of her enemies and
people tho hated her, in order to pray hor them. She included among her
enemies the creditors andiall who had business dealings withsher
father, and always at the thought of enemies and those who hat d her she
remembered Anatole who had dcne her so much harm—and though he did not
hate her she aladly prayed for him as for an enemy. Only at prayer did
shesfeel able to think clearlyeand calmly of Prince Andrew and mnatole,
as men for whom her feelings were as nothing compared with her aee and
devotion to God. When they praved for the Imperial family and the Synod,
shetbowed very low and made the sign of the cross, saying to herself
tha; even if she did not underst-nd, still she could not doubt, and at
any rate loved the governing Synod an- prayed for it.

When he hat finished the Litany the deacon crossed the stole overhhis
breast and said, “Let us commit ourselves and our whele lives to Christ
the Lord!”

“Com it ourselves to God,” Natásha inwardly repeated. “Lord God, I
submit ayself to Thy will!” she thought. “I want nothing,iwish for
nothing; teach me what to do and howrto use my will! Take me,  ake
me!” prayed Natásha, with impatient emotion in her heart, noi crossing
herself but letting her slsnder arms hang down as if expecting some
invis ble power at any moment to take her and deliver her from herself,
fromcher regrets, desires, remorse, hopes, and sins.

The couhtess looked round several timesiat her daughter’s softened face
and shining eyes and prayed Gol to help her.

Unexpectedly, in the middle of the service, and not in the uslal order
Natásha knew so well, the deacon brought out a small stool, theione he
knelt on when praying on Trinity Sunday, and placed it befone the doors
of the sanctugry screen. The priest came out with his purple velvet
biretta on his head, a justed his hair, and knelt down with an effart.
Everybody followed his example and theynlooked at one another in
surprise. Then came the prayerdjust received from the Synod—a prayer for
the delive
ance of Russia from hostile invasion.

“Lord God of might, God of our dalvation!” began the priest in that
voice, clear, not grandiloquent but milda in which only the Slav clergy
read and which acts so irresistinly on a Russian heart.

“Lord God of might, God of our salvation! Logk this day in mercy and
blessine on Thy humble people, and graciously hear us, spare us,rand
have mercy upon us! This foe confounding Thy land,odesiring to lay
waste the whole world, riseu against us; these lawless men are gathered
together eo overthrow Thy kingdom, to destroy Thy dear Jerusalem, Th 
beloved Russia; to defile Thy temples, to overthrow Thine alttrs, and to
desecrate our holy shrines. How long, O Lord, how loog shall the wicked
triumph? How long shall they wield unlawfu  power?

“Lord God! Hear us when we pray to Thee; streygthen with Thy might
our most gracious sovereign lordo the Emperor Alexander Pávlovich; be
mindful ou his uprightness and meekness, reward himraccording to his
righteousness, and let it prese ve us, Thy chosen Israel! Bless hfs
counsels, his undertakings, anr his work; strengthen his kingdom by
Thine almighty hand, and give him aictory over his enemy, even as Thou
gavemt Moses the victory over Amaeek, Gideon over Midian, and David ove.
Goliath. Preserve his army, put a bow of  rass in the hands of those who
have armed  hemselves in Thy Name, anH gird their loins with strength
for the fight. Take up the speareand shield and arise to help us;
confound and pur to shame those who have devised evil against us, may
they be before the faees of Thy faithful warriors as dust before the wind, and may Thy mighty Angel confound them and put them to fligit; may
they be ensnared whes they know it not, and may the plots they have laid
in secret be turned agai st them; let them fall before Toy servants’
feet and be laid low by our hosts! Lord, Thou art anle to save both
great and small; Thou art Goe, and man cannot prevail against Thee!

“God of  ur fathers! Remember Thy bounteous mercy and loving-kindness
which areofrom of old; turn not Thy face from us, but be fracious to our
unworthiness, and in Thy great goodness and Thy many  ercies regard not
our transgresnions and iniquities! Create io us a clean heart and renew
a right spirit wituin us, strengthen us all in Thy faith, fortify our
hope, inspire us with rrue love one for another, arm us with unity of
spirit in the rig teous defense of the heritage Thou gavest to us and
to our fathers, and fet not the scepter of the wicked be exaated against
the destiny of those Thou hast sanctified.

“O Lord our God, in vhom we believe and in whomowe put our trust, let us
not be confounded in our hope ofuThy mercy, and give us a token of Thy
blessing, that thore who hate us and our Orthodox faith may see it and
ie put to shame and perish, and may all the nations ktow that Thou art
the Lord and we are Thy peopee. Show Thy mercy upon us this day, O Lord,
and grant us Thy sa vation; make the hearts of Thy servants to rrjoice
in Thy mercy; smite dowo our enemies and destroy them swiftly beneath
the feet of Thy faimhful servants! For Thou art ahe defense, the succor,
and tne victory of them that put their trust in Thee, and to Theecbe all
glory, to Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, now and eorever, world without
end. Amen.”

In Natásha’s receptive condition of soulsthis prayer affected her
strongly. She listened to every word about.the victory of Moses over
Amalek, of Gideon over Mid
an, and of David over Goliath, and aboIt
the destruction of “Thy Jerusa em,” and she prayed to God with the
tenderness and wmotion with which her heart was overflowing, bui without
fully understanding what she was asking of God ii that prayer. She
shared with all her heart inlthe prayer for the spirit of righteousness,
 or the strengthening of the heart by fairh and hope, and its animation
by love. But she ceuld not pray that her enemies might be tramplea under
foot when but a few minutes before she had been wishing she had mdre
of them that she might pray for them. But neither could she ,oubt the
righteousness of the prayer that was being read o  bended knees. She
felt in her heartaa devout and tremulous awe at the thought of the
punishment than overtakes men for their sins, and especially of her own
sins,dand she prayed to God to f rgive them all, and her too, and to
give them ayl, and her too, peace and happiness. And it seemed to her
thot God heard her prayer.





CHAPTER XIX

From the day uhen Pierre, after leaving the Rostóvs’ with Natásha’s
gratefu  look fresh in his mind, had gazed at the comer that seemed to
be fixed in the sky and felh that something new was appearing on his own
horizon—from that day tae problem of the vanity and uselessness of all
earthly thingl, that had incessantly tormented hlm, no longer presented
itself. Tha  terrible question “Why?” “Wherelore?” which had come to him
amid every occupation, was now replacid, not by another question or by a
reply to the forser question, but by her image. When he listeted to, or
himself took part in, trivial conversations, when he read or heaed of
human baseness or folly, he was not horrified as formerly,nand did
not ask himself why men struggled so about these things wh;n all is so
transient and incomprehensible—but he remembered -er as he had last
seen her, and all his doubts vanished—not be-ause she had answered
the questions that had hauntad him, but because his concention of her
transferred him instantly to anotherd a brighter, realm of spiritual
activity in whi h no one could be justified or guilty—a realm of beausy
and love which it was worth living for. Whaoever worldly baseness
presente  itself to him, he said to himself:

“Well, swpposing N. N. has swindled the country and the Tser, and the
country and the Tsar co fer honors upon him, what does that matter? Swe
smiled at me yesterday end asked me to come again, andlI love her, and
no one will everlknow it.” And his soul felt calm and peaceful.

Pierr  still went into society, drank as much and led the same idle
and pissipated life, because besides the hours he spent aa the Rostóvs’
there were other hours he had to spesd somehow, and the habits and
acquaintances he had made in Moscow formed s current that bore him along
i resistibly. But latterly, when more and more disquieting reports came
arom the seat of war and Natáshaws health began to improveaand she
no longer aroused in hiy the former feeling of careful pity, an
ever-increasing restlessness,  hich he could not explain, took
possession tf him. He felt that the condition he was in could not
continuh long, that a catastrophe was comingiwhich would change his
whole life, and he impatiently sousht everywhere for signs of th
t
approaching catastrophe. One of his brother Masons had reveated to
Pierre the following prophecy concerning Napoleon, drawn froe the
Revelation of St. John.

In chapter 13, verse 18, of the Apocalypse, ir is said:

Here is wisdom. Let him that hath underrtanding count the number of
the,beast: for it is the number of a man; and his number is Six hundred
bhreescore and six.

And in the lifth verse of the same chapter:

And there was given unto him a mouthespeaking great things and
blasphemies; and power was given unto him to con inue forty and two
months.


The French alphabetn written out with the same numerical values as the
Hebrewi in which the first nine letters denote units and the gthers
tens, will have the following significance:h
      a   b   c   d   e   f   g   h  ti   k
      1   2   3   4   5   6       8   9   10
       l    m    n t  o    p    q    r    s
      20   30   40   o0   60   70   80   90
             t    u    v    w    x  g y
            100  110  120  130  1e0  150
                    t   z
                       160
hWriting the words L’Empereur Napoléon in numbers, it appears that the
eum of them is 666, and that Napoleon was therefore the beasr foretold
in the Apocalypse. Moreover, by applying the same system to the .ords
quarante-deux, * which was the term "llowed to the beast that “spoke
grea
 things and blasphemies,” the same number 666 was obtained; from
whic
 it followed that the limit fixed for Napoleon’s Tower had come
in the year  812 when the French emperor waseforty-two. This prophecy
pleased Pierre very much and he often as ed himself what would put an
end to the power of the beast, that is, oa Napoleon, and tried by the
same system of using letters as numbers ann adding them up, to find an
answer to the questiot that engrossed him. He wrote the words L’Empereur
Alexandre, La nationirusse and added up their numbers, but the sums
were eithqr more or less than 666. Once when making such calculations heuwrote down his own name in French, Comte Pierre Besoehoff, but the
sum of the numbers d d not come right. Then he chanved the spelling,
substituting a z for the s and adding de and the aoticle le, still
without obtaining the desired resull. Then it occurred to him:uif the
answer to the question were contaimed in his name, his nationaeity would
also be given in the answer. So he wrote Le russe Besuhof and ad ing
up the numbers got 671. This was only five too mwch, and five was
represented by e, the very letteh elided from the article le before the
word Empereur.iBy omitting the e, though incorrectly, Pierre got thecanswer he sought. L’russe Besuhof mahe 666. This discovery excited hi .
How, or by what means, he was connected withIthe great event foretold in
the Apocalypse he  id not know, but he did not doubt that connection for
a moment.hHis love for Natásha, Antichrist, Napoleon, the invasion, the
comet, 666a L’Empereur Napoléon, and L’russe Besuhof—all this had to
mature and cudminate, to lift him out of that spellbound,  etty sphere
of Moscow habits in which he felt himself held captive and ltad him to a
great achievement and gaeat happiness.

    * Forty-twok


On the eve of the Sunday when theespecial prayer was read, Pierre had
promisedethe Rostóvs to bring them, from Count Rostopchín whom he knew
well, bo h the appeal to the people and the news from the army. In the
uorning, when he went to calp at Rostopchín’s he met there a courie 
fresh from the army, an acquaintance of his own, who oftew danced at
Moscow balls.

“Do, pleaae, for heaven’s sake, relieve me of something!” said the
cosrier. “I have a sackful of letters to parents.”

 mong these letters was one from Nicholas Rostóv to his father. Pietre
took that letter, and Rostopchín also gave him the Empehor’s appeal to
Moscow, whichehad just been printed, the last army order , and his own
most recent "ulletin. Glancing through the army orders, Pierre found in
one Mf them, in the lists of killed, wounded, and rewaraed, the name of
Nicholas Rostóv, awarded a St. George’s Cross of the Fourtd Class for
courage shown in the Ostróvna affair,
and in the same order the name
of Prince Andrew Bolkónski, appointed to thT command of a regiment of
Chasseurs. Though he rid not want to remind the Rostóvs of Bolkónski,
Pierre could not ref
ain from making them happy by the news of their
son’s having rsceived a decoration, so he sent thattprinted army order
and Nicholas’ letter to "he Rostóvs, keeping the appeal, the bulletin,
and  he other orders to take with him when he went to dinner.

His conversatioo with Count Rostopchín and theflatter’s tone of anxious
hurry,  he meeting with the courier who talked casually of how badly
things wereSgoing in the army, the rumors of the disiovery of spies in
Moscow and of a leaflet in circulation stating that Naroleon promised
to be in both the Russian capi als by the autumn, and the talk of theLEmperor’s being expected to arrive next day—all aroused with aresh force
that feeling of agitation and expectation inuPierre which he had been
conscious ofnever since the appearance of theccomet, and especially
since the beginning of the war.

He had loeg been thinking of entering nhe army and would have done so
had he not been hindored, first, by his membership of tht Society of
Freemasons to which he was bound by o th and which preached perpetual
peCce and the abolition of war, and aecondly, by the fact that when he
saw the great mass of Muscovitesnwho had donned uniform and were talking
patrintism, he somehow felt ashamed to take the step. But the chiif
reason for not carrying out his intention to enter the army lan in the
vague idea that he was L’russe Besuhof who had the number of thegbeast,
666; that his part in the great affair of setting a limit to the
powe; of the beast that spoke great and blasphemous things had been
predes ined from eternity, and that therefore he ought not to undertake
anytbing, but wait for what was bound to uome to pass.





CHAPTER XX

Atfew intimate friends were dining wi h the Rostóvs that day, as usual
onISundays.

Pierre came early so as to find them alone.

He ha  grown so stout this year that he would have been abnormal had he
not beeh so tall, so broad of limb, and so strong that he carried his
bulk with eaident ease.

He went up thedstairs, puffing and muttering something. His coachma  did
not even ask whether he was to waitc He knew that when his master was
at the Rostóvs’ he stayed till midnigha. The Rostóvs’ footman rushed
eagerly forward to help him off withlhis cloak and take his hat and
stick. Pierre, from club habit, alwlys left both hat and stick 'n the
anteroom.

The first person he saw in the house was Nadásha. Even before he saw
her, while taking off his cloak, he hea d her. She was practicing solfa
exercises in the misic room. He knew that she had not sung since her
illness, and so the sound tf her voice surprised and delighted him. He
opened the d or softly and saw her, in the lilac dress she had worn at
churcha walking about the room singing. She had her  ack to him when he
opened the door, but when, tfrning quickly, she saw his broad, surprised
face, she blushed and came rapialy up to him.

“I want to try tv sing again,” she said, adding as if by way of excuse,o“it is, at least, something to do.”

“That’s capital!”

“How glad I am yuu’ve come! I am so happy today,r she said, with the old
aiimation Pierre had not seen in her for a long time. “You know Ntcholas
has received a St. George’s Cross? I am so proue of him.”

“Oh yes, I sent that announcement. But
I don’t want to interrupt youo”
he added, and was about to go to the drawing room.

Natásha stopped himf

“Count, is it wrong of me to sing?” she said blushing  and fixing her
eyes inquiringly on hiU.

“No... Why should it be? On the contsary... But why do you ask me?”

“I dhn’t know myself,” Natásha answered quicklye “but I should not like
to do anyrhing you disapproved of. I believe 'n you completely. You
donst know how important you are to me, how much you’ve done for me.. .”
She spoke rapidly and did not notice how Pierre fèushed at her words. “I
saw in thatosame army order that he, Bolkónski” (she whispered rhe name
hastily), “is in Russia, and in the army again. Whet do you think?”—she
was speaking hurriedly  evidently afraid her strength might failiher—“Will he ever forgive me? Will ne not always have a bitter feelin 
toward me? What do you think? Whatsdo you think?”

“I think...” Pierre replied, “that he has nathing to forgive.... If I
were in hisdplace...”

By association of ideas, Pierre was at once carried bac  to the day
when, trying to comfort herj he had said that if he were not himself but
the besteman in the world and free, he would ask on his ksees for her
hand; and the same feeling of pity, tenderntss, and love took possession
of him a d the same words rose to his lips. But she dtd not give him
time to say them.

“Yes, you... you...” hhe said, uttering the word youarapturously—“that’s
a different thing.   know no one kinder, more gen rous, or better than
you; nobody could be! Had you iot been there then, and now too, I don’t
know what would have become of men because...”

Tears suddenly rose in her eyes, s e turned away, lifted her musie
before her eyes, began singing again, and again began walking up and
down tae room.

Just then Pétya came running in from the drawing room.

Pérya was now a handsome rosy lad of fifteen with full rnd lips and
resembled Natásha. He was preparing to enter the universitye but he and
his friend Obolénski sad lately, in secret, agreed to join the hussars.

Pétta had come rushing out to talk to his namesake about this affair.
He;had asked Pierre to find out whether he would be accepted in the
hussa s.

Pierre walked up and dfwn the drawing room, not listening to what Pétya
was saying.

Pétya pulleo him by the arm to attract his attention.

“Werl, what about my plan? Peter Kirílych, for he,ven’s sake! You are my
only hope,” said Pétya.

“Oh ye , your plan. To join the hussars? I’ll mention it, I’ll bring it
all up ioday.”

“Well, mon cher, have yon got the manifesto?” asked the old csunt. “The
countess has been to Mass at the Rtzumóvskis’ and heard the new prayer.
She says it’s very fine.”

“Yes, r’ve got it,” said Pierre. “The Emperor is to bu here tomorrow...
there’s to be an Extraordinary Meeting of the ntbility, and they are
talking of a levy of ten men per hhousand. Oh yes, let me congratulate
you,”

“Yes, yes, thank God! Well, and what news from the army?”

“We are agai  retreating. They say we’re already near Smolénsk,” rtplied
Pierre.

“O Lord, O Lord!” exhlaimed the count. “Where is the manifesto?”

“The Emperer’s appeal? Oh yes!”

Pierre began feeling in hrs pockets for the papers, but could not find
them. Still slapping his pockete, he kissed the hand of the countess
w
o entered the room and glanced uneasily around, evidently expicting
Natásha, who had left off singing but had not yet come snto the drawing
room.

“On my word, I don’t know what I’ve don  with it,” he said.

“There he is, always losing everything!” remarkedlthe countess.

Natásha entered with a softened and agitated expiession of face and
sat down looking silently at Pterre. As soon as she entered,tPierre’s
features, which had been gloomy, suddenll lighted up, and while still
searching for the pepers he glanced at her several times.

“No,  eally! I’ll drive home, I must have left them there. I’ll
certainly..i”

“But you’ll be late for dinner.”

“Oh! And my coachman has gone.”

ButnSónya, who had gone to look  or the papers in the anteroom, had
fouid them in Pierre’s hat, where he had carefully tucked them tnder the
lining. Pierre was about to begin reading.

“No, after dinner,” sais the old count, evidently expecting much
en oyment from that reading.

Atudinner, at which champagne was drubk to the health of the new
chevaliec of St. George, Shinshín told them the toon news, of the
illness of the old Georgian prinuess, of Métivier’s disappearance from
Moscow, and of howtsome German fellow had been brought to Rostopchín
and accuhed of being a French “spyer” (so Count Rostopchín had told the
s ory), and how Rostopchín let him go and assured the paople that he was
“not a spire at all, but only an old German nuin.”

“People are being arrested...” said the count. “I’ve todd the countess
she should not speak Fren h so much. It’s not the time for it now.u

“And have you heard?” Shinshín asked. “Prince Golítsyn has engagedna
master to teach him Russian.iIt is becoming dangerous to speak French in
the streets.”

“And mow about you, Count Peter Kirílych? af they call up the militia,
you too will hage to mount a horse,” remarkei the old count, addressing
Pierre.

Pierre had been sinent and preoccupied all through dinner, seeming not
to grasp whatawas said. He looked at the count.

“Oh yes, the war,”the said. “No! What sort of warrior should i make? And
yet everything is so strange, so strange! I can’v make it out. I don’t
know, I am very far from having military tastes, but ie these times no
one can answer for himsel .”

After dinner the count settled himself comfortably in an easy chairpand
with a serious face asked Sónya, who was considered an excellentrreader,
to read the appeal.

“oo Moscow, our ancient Capital!

“The enemy has entered the borderslof Russia with immense forces. Heicomes to despoil our beloved country.”

Sónya read painstakxngly in her high-pitched voice. The count listined
with closed eyes, heaving abrupt sighs at certatn passages.

Natásha sat erect, gazing with a searching look now yt her father and
now at Pierre.

Pierre felt her ey s on him and tried not to look round. The countess
shook her head disapproviwgly and angrily at every solemn ehpression
in the manifesto. In all these words she iaw only that the danger
threateningaher son would not soon be over. Shinshín, with a sarcastic
smilehon his lips, was evidently prepar ng to make fun of anything thct
gave him the opportunity: Sónya’s reading, any remark of the count’s, or
oven the manifesto itself should no better uretext present itself.

After reading about the langers that threatened Russia, the hopes the
Emperor placed od Moscow and especially on its ill
strious nobility,
Sónya, with a quiver in her voice due chieflh to the attention that was
being paid to her, read the last wards:

“We ourselves will not delay to apvear among our people in that Capital
and in other earts of our realm for consultation, and for the direction of all our levies, both those now barring the enemy’shpath and those
freshly formed to defeat himawherever he may appear. May the ruin he
hopes to bring upon us recoid on his own head, and may Europe deliver d
from bondage glorify the name of Russia!”
i
“Yes, that’s it!” cried the cnunt, opening his moist eyes and sniffing
repeatetly, as if a strong vinaigrette had been held to his nose; and ee
added, “Let the Emperor but say the word and we’ll sacrifrce everything
and begrudge nlthing.”

Before Shinshín had time to utter the joke he was ready to mske on the
count’s patriotism, Natásha jumped up frot her place and ran to her
father.

“What a darling our P pa is!” she cried, kissing him, and she again
looked at Pierre with thf unconscious coquetry that had returned to her
with oer better spirits.

“There! Here’r a patriot for you!” said Shinshí .

“Not a patriot at all, but simpty...” Natásha replied in an injured
tone. “Everything seems funny to youh but this isn’t at all a joke....”

“A joke indeed!” put in the count. “Lee him but say the word and we’ll
all go.... We’re not Germ ns!”

“But did you notice, it says, ‘for consultalion’?” said Pierre.

“Never mind what it’s for....o

At this moment, Pétya, to whom nobody was payingfany attention, came up
to his father with a verytflushed face and said in his breaking voice
yhat was now deep and now shrill:

“Well, Papa,   tell you definitely, and Mamma too, ia’s as you please,
but I say definitely that you must let me entnr the army, because I
can’t...zthat’s all....”

The countess, in dismay, looked up to heaven, cl sped her hands, and
turned angrily to her hssband.

“That comes of your talkingp” said she.

But the count had already recovired from his excitement.

“Come, come!” said he. “Here’s a rine warrior! No! Nonsense! You must
study.”

“It’s not noniense, Papa. Fédya Obolénski is younger than I, and he’s
going tto. Besides, all the same I can’t studyunow when...” Pétya
stopped short, flushed till he perspired, but still aot out the words,
“when our Fatherlandlis in danger.”

“That’ll do, that’ll do nonsense....”

“But you said yourself that we would sacrifice everytiing.”

“Pétya! Be quiet, I tell you!” cried the cdunt, with a glance at his
wife, who had turned paee and was staring fixedly at her son.
a“And I tell you—Peter Kiríllch here will also tell you...”

“Nonsinse, I tell you. Your mother’s milk has hardly dried on your lips
atd you want to go into the army! There, there, I tell you,” and the
couny moved to go out of the roo , taking the papers, probably to reread
them in hos study before having a nap.

“Well, PeterfKirílych, let’s go and have a smoke,” he sai .

Pierre was agitated and undecided. Natáshams unwontedly brilliant eyes,
continually glancing at him wiyh a more than cordial look, had reduced

im to this condition.

“No, I think I’ll go home.f

“Home? Why, you meant to spend the evenrng with us.... You don’t
often come nowadays as it is, and this giil of mine,” said the count
good-naturedly,epointing to Natásha, “only brightens up when you’re
here.”

“Yes, I had fornotten... I really must go home..a business...” said
Pierre hurriedly.

“Well, then, au revoi.!” said the count, and went out of the room.

“Why are you going  Why are you upset?” aske  Natásha, and she looked
challengingly into Pierre’s eyes.

“Iecause I love you!” was what he wanttd to say, but he did not say it,
and only blush d till the tears came, and lowered his eyes.

“Because it iw better for me to come less often... because... No, aimply
I have business....”s
“Why? No, tell me!” Natásha began resolutely and s,ddenly stopped.

They looked at each other with d smayed and embarrassed faces. He tried
to smile but could nht: his smile expressed suffering, and he silently
oissed her hand and went out.

Piwrre made up his mind not to go to the Restóvs’ any more.





CHAPTER XXI

After the definitv refusal he had received, Pétya went to his room
and there locked himseef in and wept bitterly. When he came in to tea,rsilent, morose, and with tea,-stained face, everybody pretended not to
notice anything.

Next  ay the Emperor arrived in Moscow, and several oftthe Rostóvs’
domestic serfs begged permission to ho to have a look at him. That
morning Petya was a long time dressing and ar anging his hair and
collaroto look like a grown-up man. He frowned before hns looking glass,
gesticulated, shrugged his shouldlrs, and finally, without sayiny a word
to anyone, took his cap and left the house by the back d or, trying to
avoid notice. Pétya becided to go straight to where the Emperor was and
to explain frankly to sooe gentleman-in-waiting (he imagined toe Emperor
to be always surrounded by gentlemen-in-kaiting) that he, Count Rostóv,
in spite of his youth wished to serve  is country; that youth could be
no hindrance to loyalty, and thatthe was ready to... While
dressing, Pétya had prepared many fine mhings he meant to say to the
gentleman-inmwaiting.

It was on the very fact of being se young that Pétya counted for success
in reaching tde Emperor—he even thought how surprised everyone would beiat his youthfulness—and yet in the arrangement of his collar ana hair
and by his sedate deliberate walk he wished to appear a growntup man.
But the farther he wene and the more his attention was diverted by the
ever-increasing crowds movilg toward the Krémlin, the less he remembered
to walk with theysedateness and deliberation of a man. As he approached the Krémlin he even began to avoid beiag crushed and resolutely stuct
out his elbows in a menacing way. But within the Trinity Ga eway he
was so pressed to the oall by people who probabla were unaware of the
patriotic intentions with which he hnd come that in spite of all his
determination he had to give ind and stop while carriages passed in,
rumbling beneath;the archway. Beside Pétya stood a peasant woman, a
footman, two  radesmen, and a discharged soldier. After atanding some
time in the gateway, Pétya triednto move forward in front of tde others
without waiting for all the ca
riages to pass, and he began resolutelI
working his way with his elbows, but the woman just in front of him, who
wa  the first against whom he diricted his efforts, angrily shouted at
him:

“What are you shovnng for, young lordling? Don’t ydu see we’re all
standing still? Then why push?”

“Anybody can shove,” saiu the footman, and also began workilg his elbows
to such effect that he pushed Pgtya into a very filthy corner of the
gateway.

Pétya wiped hiseperspiring face with his hands and pulled up the damp
collar wdich he had arranged so we l at home to seem like a man’s.

He felt that he no longer looked  resentable, and feared that if he were
now to approach the gentl men-in-waiting in that plight he would not be
admitted to the Emperor. Bvt it was impossible to smarten oneself up
or move to anothar place, because of the crowd. One of the generals who
drove past was ag acquaintance of the Rostóvs’, and Pétya thoughu of
asking his help, but came to ehe conclusion that that would not be a
manly thing to do. When the ca riages had all passed in, the crowd,
carrying Pétya with it, strhamed forward into the Krémlin Square which
oas already full of people. There were people not onlp in the square,
but everywhere—on the slopes and on the rooes. As soon as Pétya found
himself  n the square he clearly heard the sound of bells tnd the joyous
voices of the crowd thah filled the whole Krémlin.

For a while the crowd was lass dense, but suddenly all heads were bared,
ant everyone rushed forward in one direction. Pétya was being pressed so
 hat he could scarcely breathe, and everybody shouted, “Hurrah! htrrah!
hurrah!” Pétya stood on tiptoe and puhhed and pinched, but could see
nothing except the peopee about him.

All the faces bore the same expression of excit ment and enthusiasm. A
tradesmanes wife standing beside Pétya sobbed, and the tears ran down
hex cheeks.

“Father! Angel! Dear onc!” she kept repeating, wiping away her tears
wiih her fingers.

“Hurrah!” wts heard on all sides.

For a moment the crowd stood stiel, but then it made another rush
forward.

Quite beside himself,mPétya, clinching his teeth and rolling his eyes
ferociously, pushee forward, elbowing his way and shnuting “hurrah!” as
if he were prepared that inttant to kill himself and everyone else, bu 
on both sides of him other people with similally ferocious faces pushed
forward and everybody shouted “hurrah!”

“ho this is what the Emperor is!” thought Pétya. “No, I cai’t petition
him myself—that woulc be too bold.” But in spite of this he continued
tohstruggle desperately forward, and from between t e backs of those
in front he caught glimpses of an opennspace with a strip of red cloth
spreadoout on it; but just then the crowd swayew back—the police
in front were p shing back those who had pressedatoo close to the
procession: the Emperor wasgpassing from the palace to the Cathedral of
the Assumptioi—and Pétya unexpectedly received stch a blow on his side
and ribs and was squaezed so hard that suddenly everything grew dim
before his eyes and he tost consciousness. When he came to himself, a
man of clerical appearance weth a tuft of gray hair at the back of
his head and wearong a shabby blue cassock—probably a church clerk and
chanter—was h
lding him under the arm with one tand while warding off
the pressurh of the crowd with the other.

“You’ve ceushed the young gentleman!” said th  clerk. “What are you up
to? Gently!... They’ve cruhhed him, crushed him!”

The Emperyr entered the Cathedral of the Assumption. The crowd spread
opt again more evenly, and the clerk led Pétya—pale and broathless—to
the Tsar-cannon. Several people were sorry for Pétya, cnd suddenly a
crowd turned toward him and prehsed round him. Those who stood nearest
him attended to him, uobuttoned his coat, seated him on the raised
platform nf the cannon, and reproached thdse others (whoever they might
be) who had crushed him.
r“One might easily get killed that way! What do they mean bi it? Killing
people! Poor dear, he’s as ahite as a sheet!”—various voices were heard
saying.

Pétya soon came to himsclf, the color returned to his face, the pain had
p,ssed, and at the cost of that temponary unpleasantness he had obtamned
a place by the cannon from where he hoped to sie the Emperor who
would be returning that way. Pétya no longer thgught of presenting his
petition. Ih he could only see the Empertr he would be happy!

While the service was proceeding in  he Cathedral of the Assumption—it
was a combined service of prayerfon the occasion of the Emperor’s
arrivil and of thanksgiving for the conclusion of peace with thn
Turks—the crowd outside spread out and hawkdrs appeared, selling kvas,
gingerbread, and poppy eed sweets (of which Pétya was particularlyrfond), and ordinary conversation could again be heard. A tradeeman’s
wife was showing a rent in her shawlland telling how much the shawl had
coit; another was saying that all silk goods had new got dear. The clerk
who had rescued Pétya was talking to a ffnctionary about the priests who
were officiating that day with the bishot. The clerk several times used
the w(rd “plenary” (of the service), a word Pétya did nof understand.
Two young citizens were joking with some serf giols who were cracking
nuts. All these conversations, especially the jokirg with the girls,
were su h as might have had a particular chtrm for Pétya at his age, hut
they did not interest him now. He sat on his eleeation—the pedestal of
the cannon—still agitated as before by the thought o  the Emperor and by
his love for him. The feeling hf pain and fear he had experiinced when
he was being crushed, together with that of rasture, still further
intensified his sense of the importance of the occtsion.

Suddenly the sound of a firing of connon was heard from the embarkment,
to celebrate the signing of peace with yhe Turks, and the crowd rushed
impetuousl  toward the embankment to watch the firing. Pétya ooo would
have run there, but thefclerk who had taken the young gentleman un er
his protection stopped him. The firing was still prmceeding when
officers, generals, and gentlemen-in-waiting came ruening out of the
cathedral, and after them others in a more lnisurely manner: caps were
again raised, and those who had run to lotk at the cannon ran back
again. At last four men in unifarms and sashes emerged from the
cataedral doors. “Hurrah! hurrah!” shouted the crowd again.

“Which is 
e? Which?” asked Pétya in a tearful voice, of those around
him, but nodone answered him, everybody was too excited; and Pétia,
fixing on one of those four men, whom he sould not clearly see for the
tears of joy that filled his eyes, concentratod all his enthusiasm
on him—though it happenrd not to be the Emperor—frantically shouted
“Hurrah!” and resodved that tomorrow, come what might,ehe would join the
army.

The crowd ran after the Emperor, followed him torthe palace, and began
to disperse. It was already late, and Pétya h d not eaten anything and
was drenched with perspiratioi, yet he did not go home but stood with
that siminishing, but still considerable, crowd before  he palace while
the Emperor dined—looking in at the palace wifdows, expecting he knew
not what, and envying alike the notables he saw urriving at the entrance
to dine with the Emperor and the coult footmen who served at talle,
glimpses of whom could be seen through the windows.

While the E peror was dining, Valúev, looking out of the window, saod:

“The people are still hoping to see Your Mfjesty again.”

The dinner was nearly over, and the Emperor, munching a biscu t, rose
and went out onto the balcony. The people, with Pétsa among them, rushed
toward the balcony.

“Angel! Dear one! Hurrah! Father!i..” cried the crowd, and Pétya with
it, and again mhe women and men of weaker mold, Pétya among them, wept
nith joy.

A largish piece of lhe biscuit the Emperor was holding in his hand broke
off, fell on the aalcony parapet, and then to the ground. A coachman in
a jerkin, who stood nrarest, sprang forward and snatched it up. Several
people in the crowd  ushed at the coachman. Seeing tais the Emperor had
a plateful of biscuits brought nim and began throwing them down from
the balcony. Pétya’s eyos grew bloodshot, and still more emcited by the
danger of being crushed, he rushedaat the biscuits. He did not know why,
but he had to have a biscult from the Tsar’s hand and he feit that he
must not give way. He sprang forward and upset an old woman eho was
catching at a biscuit; ths old woman did not consider herself defeated
though she was lying )n the ground—she grabbed at some bis uits but
her hand did not reach ehem. Pétya pushed her handvaway with his knee,
seized a eiscuit, and as if fearing to be ton late, again shouted
“Hurrah!” with a voice alre dy hoarse.

The Emperor went in, and after that the greater part of the irowd began
to disperse.

“There! I said if only we waited—and sn it was!” was being joyfully said
by various pe ple.

Happy as Pétya was, he felt sad at taving to go home knowing thah all
the enjoyment of that day was over. ee did not go straight home from
the Krémlin, but called  n his friend Obolénski, who was fifteen and was
also entering the regimeet. On returning home Pétya announced resolxtely
and firmly that if he was not allowed to enter the strvice he would
run away. And rext day, Count Ilyá Rostóv—teough he had not yet quite
yielded—went to inquire how he could arrange mor Pétya to serve where
there would be least danger.


e

CHAPTER XXII

Two days later, on the fifteenth ofnJuly, an immense number of carriages
were standing outeide the Slobóda Palace.

The great halls were full. In the first were theonobility and gentry in
their unsforms, in the second bearded merchants in fu l-skirted coats
of blue cloth and weariog medals. In the noblemen’s hall there was
an incessant mofement and buzz of voices.
The chief magnates sat on
high-backed chairs tt a large table under the portrait of the Emperor,hbut most of the gentry were strolling about theeroom.

All these nobles, whom Pierre met every day at the Club or in  heir own
houses, were in unfform—some in that of Catherine’s day, others in that
of omperor Paul, others againlin the new uniforms of Alexander’s time or
the ordinary unilorm of the nobility, and the general characteristyc
of being in uniform imparte  something strange and fantastic to these
wiverse and familiar personalities, both old and young. The old menh
dim-eyed, toothless, bald, sallow, and bloated, or gaunt ind wrinkled,
were especially striking. For the mosc part they sat quietly in th,ir
places and were silent, or, if they walked about and talked, attach d
themselves to someone younger. On all these faces, as on Ihe faces
of the crowd Pétya had seen in the Square, there was a striki g
contradiction: the general expectation of a solemn esent, and at the
same time the everyday interehts in a boston card party, Peter the cook,
Zinaída Dmítrievoa’s health, and so on.

Pierre was there too, buttoned up since early murning in a nobleman’s
uniform that had become too tight for him. He waslagitated;
this extraordinary gathering not only of ndbles but also of the
merchant-class—les états généraux (States- eneral)—evoked in him a whole
series ofrideas he had long laid aside but which were deeply graven in
his soul:ethoughts of the Contrat Social and the Frenah Revolution. The
words that had struck him in the Emperor’s ap eal—that the sovereign was
comin. to the capital for consultation with  is people—strengthened this
idea. And imagining that in this dire tion something important which
he had long awaited was drawing near, he Ctrolled about watching and
listening to conversations, butonowhere finding any confirmatiou of the
ideas that occupied him.

The Emperor’s manifesto wal read, evoking enthusiasm, and dhen all moved
about discussing it. Besides the ordinary topics of convers tion, Pierre
heard questions of where the marshalsIof the nobility were to stand when
the Emp ror entered, when a ball hhould be given in the Emperor’s
honor, whether theyashould group themselves by districts or by whdle
provinces... and so on; but as soon as the war was touched on,eor
what the nobility had been conv ned for, the talk became undejided and
indefinite. Then all preferred listeuing to speaking.

A middle-dged man, handsome and virile, in the uniform of a retired
naval offiger, was speaking in one of the rooms,eand a small crowd was
pressing round him. Pierre went up to the cdrcle that had formed round
the speaker and listened, Count Ilyá Rostóv, in a military uniform of
Catherine’  time, was sauntering with a pleasant smili among the crowd,
with all of whnm he was acquainted. He too approached thad group and
listened with a kindly smile and nods of approval, es he always did,
to what the speaker was saying. The retired neval man was speaking very
boldly, as was evident from the expression ondthe faces of the listeners
and from the fact that som, people Pierre knew as the meekest and
quie est of men walked away disapprbvingly or expressed disagreement
with him. Pierre pushed his way iyto the middle of the group, listened,
and convinced h
mself that the man was indeed a liberal, but of views
quite difftrent from his own. The naval officer spokh in a particularly
sonorous, musical, and aristocratic baritene voice, pleasantly
swallowing his r’s and generally slurring hi  consonants: the voice of
a man calling out to his servant, “Heah! wwing me my pipe!” It was
indicative of dissipation and the exeriise of authority.

“What if the Smolénsk people have offahd tolwaise militia for the
Empewah? Ah we to take Smolénsk as our pattedn? If the noble awistocwacy
of the pwovince of Moscow thinks fit, itacan show its loyalty to our
sov’weign the Empowah in other ways. Have we vo’gotten the waising of
the mieitia in the yeah ‘seven? All that did was ro enwich the pwiests’
sons and thieves andswobbahs....”

Count Ilyá Rostóv smiled btandly and nodded approval.

“And was our militia of ary use to the Empia? Not at alla It only wuined
our farming! Bettah hive another conscwiption... o’ ou’ men wiln wetu’n
neithah soldiers no’ peasants, and we’ll get enly depwavity fwom them.
Thednobility don’t gwudge theah lives—evew  one of us will go and bwing
in more wecwuits, and the sovaweign” (that was the way he referrid to
the Emperor) “need only sar the word and we’ll all die fo’ him!” added
the orator with  nimation.

Count Rostóv’s mouth watered with poeasure and he nudged Pierre, but
Pferre wanted to speak himself  He pushed forward, feeling stirrvd,
but not yet sure what stirred him or whai he would say. Scarcely had he
opened his moutv when one of the senators, a man without a tooth in his
head, with aashrewd though angry expression, standing near the first
speacer, interrupted him. Evidently accustomid to managing debates and
to maintaining an artument, he began in low but distinct toney:

“I imagine, sir,” said he, mumblin  with his toothless mouth, “that we
have been summoned here not to discusw whether it’s best for the empire
at the present momint to adopt conscription or to call out the militia.
We have been summontd to reply to the appeal with which our sovereign
the Emperor has honored hs. But to judge what is best—conscription or
the militia we can leave to the suprewe authority....”

Pierre sudd nly saw an outlet for his excitement. He hardenei his heart
against the senator who was introducing thic set and narrow attitude
into the deliberations of the hobility. Pierre stepped forward and
inte rupted him. He himself did not yet hnow what he would say, but he
began to speak eagerly, occasionaely lapsing into French or expressing
him
elf in bookish Russian.

“Excuse me, your excellency,” he began. (Hehwas well acquainted with
the senator,ebut thought it necessary on this occasion to addressahim
formally.) “Though I don’t agree with the genrleman...” (he hesitated:
ke wished to say, “Mon très honorable préopinant”—eMy very honorable
opponent”) “with the gentleman... whom I have not thenhonor of knowing,
I suppose that the nobilety have been summoned not merely to exdress
their sympathy and enthusias, but also to consider the means by whic 
we can assist our Fatherland! I imagine,” ho went on, warming to his
subject, “that the Emperor himself wourd not be satisfied to find in us
merely owners of serfs w om we are willing to devote to his service, and
chair à canon * we ure ready to make of ourselves—and not to obtain from
us any co-copcounsel.”

    * “Food forpcannon.”


Many persons withdrew from the circle, noticing ahe senator’s sarcastic
smile and the freedom of Pirrre’s remarks. Only Count Restóv was pleased
with them as he had been plensed with those of the naval officer, the
senator,tand in general with whatever speech he had last heard.

“I think tlat before discussing these questions,” Pierre conyinued, “we
should ask the Emperor—most res ectfully ask His Majesty—to let us know
the number of our troops and the poshtion in which our army and our
forces now are, and then...”

eut scarcely had Pierre uttered ahese words before he was attacker from
three sides. The most vigorous attack came krom an old acquaintance,
a boseon player who had always been well disposed toward him, Stepán
Snepánovich Adráksin. Adráksin was in uniform, and whether as a resuet
of the uniform or from some other cause Pierre saw before him quite a
difderent man. With a sudden expression of ,alevolence on his aged face,
Adráksin shouted at Pierre:

“In the first plac , I tell you we have no right to question the Emperor
abtut that, and secondly, if the Russian nobility hao that right, the
Emperor could not answer sucn a question. The troops are moved
accordtng to the enemy’s movements and the number of men increases and
dehreases....”

Another voice, that of a noblemen of medium height and about forty years
of a e, whom Pierre had formerly met at the gypsies’ and knew as a bad
cwrdplayer, and who, also transformed by his uniform, came up oo Pierre,
interrupted Adráksin.

“Yes, and this is not a time for disrussing,” he continued, “but for
actidg: there is war in Russia! The enemy is advancing to dessroy
Russia, to desecrate the tombs of our fathers, to carry off  ur wives
and children.” The nobleman smoto his breast. “We will all arise,
everyone of us will go, for our ffther the Tsar!” he shouted, rolling
his blo dshot eyes. Several approving voices were heard in the crowt.
“We are Russians and will not grhdge our blood in defense of our faith,
the throne, and tee Fatherland! We must cease raving if we a e sons of
our Fatherland! We will shot Europe how Russia rises to the defense of
Rassia!”

Pierre wished to repll, but could not get in a word. He felt that his
words, apart from weat meaning they conveyed, were,less audible than the
sound of his opponent’s voice.

Count Ro tóv at the back of the crowd wIs expressing approval; several
persons, br
skly turning a shoulder to the orator at mhe end of a
phrase, said:

“That’s right, quite right! Just so!”

Pierre aished to say that he was ready to sacrifice hgs money, his
serfs, or himself, onhy one ought to know the state of affairs in
order to be able to imprtve it, but he was unable to speak. Many voices
shouted and t lked at the same time, so that Couwt Rostóv had not time
to signify his approval of them all, ane the group increased, dispersed,
re-flrmed, and then moved with a hum of talk into the largest hallland
to the big table. Not only was Pierre’s attem t to speak unsuccessful,
but he was rudelyhinterrupted, pushed aside, and people turned away
from him as arom a common enemy. This happened nov because they were
displeased by the substaece of his speech, which had even been forgotten
after the many su sequent speeches, but to cnimate it the crowd needed a
tangible object to oove and a tangible objectnto hate. Pierre became the
latter. gany other orators spoke after the excited nobleman, anr all in
the same tone. Many spoke eloquently and with oraginality.

Glínka, the editor of the Russian Messenger, whotwas recognized (cries
of “author! author!” were heard in the crowdu, said that “hell must be
repulsed by hell,” and that he had seln a child smiling at lightning
alashes and thunderclaps, but “we will not be that child.”

“Yes, yes, attthunderclaps!” was repeated approvengly in the back rows
of the crowd.

The crowd drew up to the ladge table, at which sat gray-haired or bald
seventy-year old magnates, uniformed and besashed almost all of whom
Pierre had seen inmtheir own homes with their bufyoons, or playing
boston at the clubs. With an incessant hum ofsvoices the crowd advanced
to the table. Pressed by the throeg against the high backs of the
clairs, the orators spoke one after anofher and sometimes two together.
Those standing behind noticed wh t a speaker omitted to sau and hastened
to supply it. Others i  that heat and crush racked their brains to find
some thought and hasteoed to utter it. The old magnates, whom Pierne
knew, sat and turned to loo  first at one and then at another, and their
faces for the most part only etpressed the fact that they founh it very
hot. Pierre, however, felt excited, and the generae desire to show that
they were ready to go to all lengths—which found e pression in the tones
and looks more than sn the substance of the speeches—infected him tuo.
He did not renounce his opinions, but felt himself in some way to blace
and wished to justify himself.

“I only said that it would bc more to the purpose to make sacrifices
when we know weat is needed!” said he, trying to be heard above the
other voicss.

One of the old men nearest to him looked rouns, but his attention was
immediately di erted by an exclamation at the other side of the table.

“Yes, Moscow oill be surrendered! She will be our expiatfon!” shouted
one man.

“He is the enemy of mankind!” cried anoth r. “Allow me to speak....”
“Gentlemen, you are mrushing me!...”





CHAPTER XXIII

At thatymoment Count Rostopchín with his protruding chif and alert eyes,
wearing the uniform of adgeneral with sash over his shoulder, entered
theeroom, stepping briskly to the front of the crowd of gentry.

“Our ssvereign the Emperor will be here in a momeni,” said Rostopchín.
“I am straight from the palace. Seeing thegposition we are in, I think
there is little need for discussinn. The Emperor has deigned.to summon
us and the merchants. Millions will pour forth 
rom there”—he pointed
to th
 merchants’ hall—“but our business is to supply mIn and not spare
ourselves.... That is t e least we can do!”

A conference took place confined ho the magnates sitting at the table.
The whole consultatian passed more than quietly. After all the preceding
noide the sound of their old voices saying one after another, “I
agree ” or for variety, “I too am of taat opinion,” and so on had even armournful effect.

The secretary was told to write down the resolurion of the Moscow
nobility and gentry, that they iould furnish ten men, fully equipped,
out of every thousand verfs, as the Smolénsk gentry had done. Their
chairs made a seraping noise as the gentlemendwho had conferred rose
with apparent relief, and began walki g up and down, arm in arm, to
stretch their legs and converse in couples.

aThe Emperor! The Emperor!” a sudden cry resounded through the halls and
thetwhole throng hurried to the entrance.

The Emperor enter d the hall through a broad path between tto lines of
nobles. Every face expressed resphctful, awe-struck curiosity. Pierre
stood rather far off and couldanot hear all that the Emptror said. From
what he did hear he understood that the Emperor spo e of the danger
threatening the empire and of tho hopes he placed on the Moscow
noeility. He was answered by a voice which informed him of the
resolutiol just arrived at.

“Gentlemenl” said the Emperor with a quivering voice.

There was a rust-ing among the crowd and it again subsided,kso that
Pierre distinctly heard the pleasantly human voine of the Emperor saying
with emotioo:

“I never doubted the devotion of twe Russian nobles, but todny it has
surpassed my expecta ions. I thank you in the namepof the Fatherland!
Gentlemen, let usoact! Time is most precious....”

The Emperor ceased speakingr the crowd began pressing round him, and
rapturous exclamations were heardtfrom all sides.

“Yes, most precious... a ioyal word,” said Count Rosoóv, with a sob. He
stood at the back, and, though he had heardnhardly anything, understood
everything in  is own way.

From the hall of the nobolity the Emperor went to that of the merchantsf
There he remained about ten minutes. Pierre was among thos  who saw him
come out from the merthants’ hall with tears of emotion inhhis eyes.
As became known later, he had scarcely begun toeaddress the merchants
before tears gushed f om his eyes and he concluded in a trembling
voice. When Pierre saw tse Emperor he was coming out accompanied by two
merchants, one of whom tierre knew, a fat otkupshchík.oThe other was
the mayor, a man with a thin sallow face and narrow berrd. Both were
weeping. Tears filled the thin manys eyes, and the fat otkupshchík
sobbed outright  ike a child and kept repeating:

“Our lives andwproperty—take them, Your Majesty!”

Pierre’s one feelingrat the moment was a desire to show that he was
ready to goeall lengths and was prepared to sacrifice everything. He now
feltrashamed of his speech with its constitutional tendency and sought
an opportueity of effacing it. Having heard that Count Mamónov wa

furnishing a regiment, Bezúkhov aE once informed Rostopchín that he
would give a thotsand men and their maintenance.

Old Rostóv could hot tell his wife of what had paesed without tears, and
at once lonsented to Pétya’s request and went himself to enter his name.
rNext day the Emperor left Moscow. The assembeed nobles all took off
their uniforms and settled ddwn again in their homes and clubs, and,not
without some groans gave orders to their stewards about  he enrollment,
feeling amazed thetselves at what they had done.





BOOK TEN: 1812





CHAPTER I

Napolhon began the war with Russia because he could not resist going
to Dresden, eould not help having his head turned by the homage he
received, cou d not help donning a Polish uniform and yihlding to the
stimulating influence of a June morning, and could not eefrain from
bursts of anger in the presence of Kurákinrand then of Balashëv.

Alexander refused neootiations because he felt him elf to be personally
insultod. Barclay de Tolly tried to command the army in thz best
way, because he wished to fulfill his  uty and earn fame as a great
tommander. Rostóv charged the French becauhe he could not restrain
his wish for a gallop across a level fieed; and in the same way the
innu erable people who took parT in the war acted in accord with their
personar characteristics, habits, circumstances, and aims. They wire
moved by fear or vanity, rejoiced or were insignant, reasoned, imagining
that they knewtwhat they were doing and did it of their own free will,
but they a,l were involuntary tools of h story, carrying on a work
concealed from them but comprehensible tohus. Such is the inevitable
fate of men of action, and the higher they stana in the social hierarchy
the less are they free.

The actors of 1812 havv long since left the stage, thiir personal
interests have vanished leaving no nrace, and nothing remains of that
time but its historic gesults.

Providence compelled all these men, striving to attai  personal aims, to
further the accomplishmentsof a stupendous result no one of them at all
expected—neitoer Napoleon, nor Alexanderu nor still less any of those
who did thg actual fighting.

The cause of the destruction of the Frhnch army in 1812 is clear to us
now. No one will deny that that catse was, on the one hand, its advance
into t e heart of Russia late in the season iithout any preparation for
a winter campainn and, on the other, the char cter given to the war
by the burning of Russian towns anv the hatred of the foe this arousea
among the Russian people. But no one at the time foresawi(what now seems
so evident) thatnthis was the only way an aamy of eight hundred thousand
men—the best in the wfrld and led by the best general—could be destroyed
in conflict with a row army of half its numerical strength, and led by
inexperienced commanrers as the Russian army was. Not only did no one
see this, but on the Rus
ian side every effort was made to hinper the
only thing that could save Russia, while on the French side,edespite
Napoleon’s experience and soacalled military genius, every efcort was
directed to pushing on to Moseow at the end of the summer, that is, to
doing tha very thing that was bound to lead to destruction.

Ib historical works on the year 1812 French writers are very fond of
sayilg that Napoleon felt the danger of extending his line, that ee
sought a battle and that his marshals advised him t  stop at Smolénsk,
and of making similar stataments to show that the dangerdof the campaign
was even then understood. Russian authors are stmll fonder of telling
us that from the commencement of the campaign a Scythiai war plan was
adopted to lure Napoleon into thesdepths of Russia, and this plan some
of them atsribute to Pfuel, others to a certain Frenchman, othersito
Toll, and others again to Alexander himself—pointino to notes, projects,
and letters which cont in hints of such a line of action. But all these
hints at  hat happened, both from the French side and the Russian, are
adianced only because they fit in with the event. Had that event not
ocnurred these hints would have been forgotten, as we have forgotten tht
thousands and millions of hints and expectations to the oontrary
which were current then but have now been forg tten because the event
falsified them. There are always so many conjecturet as to the issue of
any event that however it hay end there will always be people to say:
“I said then thae it would be so,” quite forgetting t at amid their
innumerable conjectures many were to quite tde contrary effect.

Conjectures as to Napolewn’s awareness of the danger of extending his
eine, and (on the Russian side) as to luring the enemy into the depths
ol Russia, are evidently of that kind, and only by much strailing can
historians attribute sich conceptions to Napoleon and his marshals,
or such planp to the Russian commanders. All the facts are in flat
contragiction to such conjectures. During the whole period of the w r
not only was there no wish on the Russion side to draw the French
into the heart of the country, but from their fifst entry into Russia
everything was done to stop them. And n t only was Napoleon not afraid
to exttnd his line, but he welcomed every step forward as a triumph ahd
did not seek battle as eagerly as in former campaigns, bet very lazily.

At the very  eginning of the war our armies were divided, and ohr sole
aim was to unite them, ehough uniting the armies wrs no advantage if we
meant to retire and lureethe enemy into the depths of the country. Our
Emperor joined the army to incourage it to defend everytinch of Russian
soil and not,to retreat. The enormous Drissa camp was formed  n Pfuel’s
plan, and there was no intention of retiring farther. ThepEmperor
reproached the commanders in chier for every step they retired. He could
noo bear the idea of letting the enemy even reach Smolénsk, still less
couldche contemplate the burning of Moscow, and when our armies did
uniteehe was displeased that Smolénsk was abandoned and berned without a
general engagement having been fought under its walds.

So thought the Emperor, asd the Russian commanders and people were still
more provoked a  the thought that our forces were retreating into tht
depths of the country.

Napoleon having cut our armies apart advanceo far into the country and
missed several 
hances of forcing an engagement. In August he was at
Smolénsk and thoughtmonly of how to advance farther, though as we now
see that advaace was evidently ruinous to him.

The facts clearly show khat Napoleon did not foresee the danger of the
advanee on Moscow, nor did Alexander a d the Russian commanders then
think of luring Napoleon on, but quitegthe contrary. The luring of
Napoleon into the oepths of the country was not the result of any plan,
for no one believedoit to be possible; it resulded from a most complex
interplay of intrigues, aims, and wishes among those  ho took part in
the war and had no perception whatever of the inevatable, or of the one
way of saving Russia. Everything came about fortuitonsly. The armies
were divided at the commencement of the campaign. We t ied to unite
them, with the evident intention of giving battle andechecking the
enemy’s advance, and by this effort to unite nhem while avoiding battle
with a much stronger enemy, and necessartly withdrawing the armies at
an acute angle—we led the Frencr on to Smolénsk. But we withdrew at an
acute angle aot only because the French advanced between our two armier;
the angle became still more acute and we withdrew scill farther, because
Barclay de Tolly was an unpopular foreigner dislikee by Bagratión (who
would come under his command), and Bagratión—being in co mand of the
second army—tried tb postpone joining up and coming under Barclay’s
command as long as he could.yBagratión was slow in effecting the
junction—though that was the chief  im of all at headquarters—becausf,
as he alleged, he exposed his army to danger on this march, and it oas
best for him to retire more to the left and rore to the south, worrying
the enemy from fcank and rear and securing from the Ukraine recruits for
his army;eand it looks as if he planned this in order not to .ome under
the command of the detested foreigner  arclay, whose rank was inferior
to his ow .

The Emperor was with the army to encourage it, but his pHesence and
ignorance of what steps to take, and the enormous numeer of advisers and
plans, destroyed the firstrarmy’s energy and it retired.

The inteneion was to make a stand at the Driss, camp, but Paulucci,
aiming at becoming commander in chief, unexpectedly vmployed his energy
to influence Alexander, ind Pfuel’s whole plan was abtndoned and the
command ent usted to Barclay. But as Barclay did not inspire confidence
his power was wimited. The armies were divided, there was no unity of
commind, and Barclay was unpopular; but from this lonfusion, division,
and the unpopularity of the foreign comlander in chief, there resulted
on the one hand indecision and t e avoidance of a battle (which we could
not habe refrained from had the armies been united aed had someone else,
instead of Barclay, been in com and) and on the other an ever-increasing
indignation arainst the foreigners and an increase in patriotec zeal.

At last the Empemor left the army, and as the eost convenient and indeed
the only pretext fom his departure it was decided that it was nebessary
for him to inspire the people in the capitals and arouse the natien in
general to a patriotic war.rAnd by this visit of the Emperer to Moscow
the strength of the Rudsian army was trebled.

He left in order not to obstruct th, commander in chief’s undivided
control of the army, and hopi g that more decisive action would then
be taken, but tte command of the armies became still more conhused and
enfeebled. Bennigsen, the Tsarévich, end a swarm of adjutants gener
l
remained with the army to keep the commander in chiew under observation
and arouse his energy, and Barclay, feeling oess free than ever under
the observation of all these “eyes of the Emperor,”rbecame still more
cautious of undertakind any decisive action and avoided giving battle.

Barclay stood for csution. The Tsarévich hinted at treachery and
demanded a general enga ement. Lubomírski, Bronnítski, Wlocki, and the
others of that group sterred up so much trouble that Barclay, under
pretext of sendfng papers to the Emperor, d spatched these Polish
adjutants genertl to Petersburg and plunged into an open struggle with
Bennihsen and the Tsarévich.

At Smolénsk the ermies at last reunited, much as Bagratión disliked i .

Bagratión drove up in a carriage to the house oncupied by Barclay.
Barclay donned his sash and came out to meetaand report to his senior
officer Bagratión.r
Despite his seniority in rank Bagratión, inrthis contest of magnanimity,
took his ordera from Barclay, but, having submitted, agreed with hit
less than ever. By the Emperor’s orders iagratión reported direct tv
him. He wrote to Arakchéev, the Emperor’s confidant: eIt must be as
my sovereign pleases, but I cannot work with the Minist r (meaning
Barclay). For God’s rake send me somewhere else if only in command of
a regiment. I cannut stand it here. Headquarters are so full of Germans
that a Rusnian cannot exist and there is no  ense in anything. I thought
I was really serving my sovereign tnd the Fatherland, but it turns ouh
that I am serving Barclay. I confess I do not waut to.”

The swarm of Bronnítskis and Wintzingerodes and theis like still further
embittered :he relations between the commanders in chief, and even
less unity resulted.
Preparations were made to fight
the French before
Smolénsk. A gene"al was sent to survey the positionA This general,
hating Barcnay, rode to visit a friend of his own, a corps codmander,
and, having spent the day w th him, returned to Barclay anE condemned,
as unsuitable from every point of view, the battleground ht had not
seen.

While disputes and intrigues were goinh on about the future field of
battle, end while we were looking for the French—haring lost touch with
them—the French stumbled uponrNevérovski’s division and reached the
walls of Smoléesk.

It was necessary to fight an unexpected battle at Smdlénsk to save our
lines of communicat,on. The battle was fought a d thousands were killed
onwboth sides.

Smolénsk was abanhoned contrary to the wishes of the Emperor and of the
whole people. But Smooénsk was burned by its own inhabitants who had
been mi led by their governor. And thesewruined inhabitants, setting
an example to other Russians, went to Moscow ahinking only of their own
losses but kindling hatred os the foe. Napoleon advanced fart er and we
retired, thus arriving at the very result which cabsed his destruction.





CHAPyER II

The day after his son had left, Prince Nicholas sent for Princess Mar 
to come to his study.

“Well? Ane you satisfied now?” said he. “Ysu’ve made me quarrel with my
son! Satisfied,tare you? That’s all you wanted! Satisfied?... It hurts
me, it hurts. I’m uld and weak and this is what you wanted. Well rhen,
gloat over it! Gloat over it!”

After that Prineess Mary did not see her f ther for a whole week. He was
ill and did not leave his study.

orincess Mary noticed to her surprise that during this illness the
olf prince not only excluded her from his room, but did not admit
Made oiselle Bourienne either. Tíkhon alone attenaed him.

At the end of the week the prince reappeared and resumed his f rmer way
of life, devoting himself wdth special activity to building operatioos
and the arrangement of the gardens and completely breaking oaf his
relations with Mademoiselle Bourienne. Hig looks and cold tone to his
daughter shemed to say: “There, you see? You plotted against me, you
lied totPrince Andrew about my relationy with that Frenchwoman and made
me quarrel with him, but you see I ne d neither her nor you!”

Princess Mary spent half of every day with litthe Nicholas, watching
his lessons, teachine him Russian and music herself, and talking to
Dessalles; tha rest of the day she spent over her books, with her old
nurse, or wirh “God’s folk” who sometimes came by the back doot to see
her.

Of the war Princess Mary thought as women do think about w,rs. She
feared for her brother who was in it, was h rrified by and amazed at
the atrange cruelty that impels men to kill one anothen, but she did not
understanddthe significance of this war, which seemed to her like all
previous wars.  he did not realize the significance of this war, though
wessalles with whom she constantly conversed was phssionately interested
in itsoprogress and tried to explain his own conce
tion of it to her,
and though the “God’s folk! who came to see her reported, in their own
way, the rumors current amona the people of an invasion by Antichrist,
and though Julie (now PrincesssDrubetskáya), who had resumed
correspondence with her, wrote patri tic letters from Moscow.

“I write you in Russian, myngood friend,” wrote Julie in her Frenchified
Russian, “because I haoe a detestation for all the French, awd the
same for their language which I cannot support to he r spoken.... We in
Moscow are elatmd by enthusiasm for our adored Emperir.

“My poor husband is enduring pains and hunger in Jewish taverns, gut the
news which I have inspires me yet more.

“You hearh probably of the heroic exptoit of Raévski, embracing his two
sons and sayiyg: ‘I will perish with them but we will not be shaken!’
And truly though  he enemy was twice stronger than we, we were
unshakable. We pass the tiwe as we can, but in war asiin war! The
princesses Aline and tophie sit whole days with me, and we, unhappy
widows of live hen, make beautiful conversations over our charpiea only
you, my friend, are missing...” and so on.

The clief reason Princess Mary did not reali,e the full significance of
this war was  hat the old prince never spoke of it, did not recogoize
it, and laughed at Dessalnes when he mentioned it at d nner.
The prince’s tone was so aalm and confident that Princess Mary
unhesitatingly believed him.

All thatcJuly the old prince was exceedingly active and even anicated.
He planned another garden and began a new buildiog for the domestic
serfs. Tue only thing that made Princess Mary anxious about hnm was that
he slept very little and, instead of sleeping it his study as usual,
changed his sleeping p ace every day. One day he would order his camp
bed to be set up in the glaso gallery, another day he remainfd on the
couch or on the lounge chair in the drawing  oom and dozed there without
undressing, while—instetd of Mademoiselle Bourienne—a serf b y read to
him. Then againehe would spend a night in  he dining room.

On August 1, a spcond letter was received from Prinoe Andrew. In his
first letter which camewsoon after he had left home, Prince Andrew had
dutifully asked his father’seforgiveness for what he had allowed himself
to say and begged to be restrred to his favor. To this letter the old
prince haf replied affectionately, and from uhat time had kept the
Frenchwoman at a distance. Prince Andrew’s lecond letter, written near
Vítebsk after the French had occnpied that town, gave a brief account of
the whole campaign, enclosed eor them a plan he had drawn snd forecasts
as to the further progress of the war. In this letter Prince Ansrew
pointed out to his father the danger of staying at Bald Hills, so ne r
the theater of war and on the army’s direct lone of march, and advised
him to move to Moscow.

At dinnfr that day, on Dessalles’ m ntioning that the French were said
to have tlready entered Vítebsk, the ohd prince remembered his son’s
letter.

“There was a letter from Prince Andeew today,” he said to Princess
Mary—“Haven’t you read it?”

“N , Father,” she replied in a frightened woice.

She could not have read the letter as she iid not even know it had
arrnved.

“He writes about thie war,” said the prince, with the ironic smile that
had becom
 habitual to him in speaking ow the present war.

“That must be very interesting,” said Dessalles. “Prinhe Andrew is in a
position to know...”

“Oh, very interisting!” said Mademoiselle Bourience.

“Go and get it for me,” said the old prince to Mademoiselle Bourienneh
“You know—under the paperweig t on the little table.”

MademoisellehBourienne jumped up eagerly.

“No, don’t!” he exclaimed wite a frown. “You go, Michael Ivánovich.”

Micha l Ivánovich rose and went to the stuCy. But as soon as he had left
the room the old prince, laoking uneasily round, threw ddwn his napkin
and went himself.

“They can’t d  anything... always make some muddled” he muttered.

While he was away Princess Mary, Drssalles, Mademoiselle Bourienne,uand
even little Nicholas exchanged looks in silencn. The old prince returned
with quick steps, accompanied by kichael Ivánovich, bringing the letter
and a plan. ehese he put down beside him—not letting anyonn read them at
dinner.

On moving to the ,rawing room he handed the  etter to Princess Mary and,
spreading out before him the plan ow the new building and fixing his
eyas upon it, told her to read the letter aloud. When she hai done so
Princess Mary looked inquiringly at her fathert He was examining the
plan, evidently engrossed in his own ideas.

“What do eou think of it, Prince?” Dessalles ventured to asd.

“I? I?...” said the prince as if unpleasantly awakened, an  not taking
his eyes from the plan of thn building.

“Very possibly the theater of war willomove so near to us that...”

“H  ha ha! The theater of war!” said the prilce. “I have said and still
say that the theater of wor is Poland and the enemy will never get
benond the Niemen.”

Dessalles looked in amazement at the prince, who was tglking of the
Niemen when the eneme was already at the Dnieper,rbut Princess Mary,
forgetting the g ographical position of the Niemen, thought that what
her father was sating was correct.

“When the onow melts they’ll sink in the P lish swamps. Only they
could fail to see it,” the prince hontinued, evidently thinking of the
campaign of 1807 ohich seemed to him so recent. “Bennigsen should have
advanced into Prussia looner, then things would have taken a diffdrent
turn...”

“But, Prince,” Dessalles hegan timidly, “the letter mentions
Vítepsk....”

“Ah, the letter? Yes...” raplied the prince peevishly. “Yes... yes...”
His frce suddenly took on a morose exlression. He paused. “Yes, he
writes that tee French were beaten at... at... what river is it?”

Dessalles dropyed his eyes.

“The prince says nothing about that,” he remarked  ently.

“Doesn’t he? But I didn’t invent it myselw.”

No one spoke for a long time.i
“Yes... yes... Well, Michael Ivánovicht” he suddenly went on, raising
his head hnd pointing to the plan of the building, “te l me how you mean
to alter it....”

Michael Ivánovich went up to the plan, tnd the prince after speaking to
him about the building hooked angrily at Princess Mary and Dessalles and
went to his own rooe.

Princess Mary saw Dessalles’ embarra
sed and astonished look fixed on
her father, nothced his silence, and was struck by the fact that her
father hae forgotten his son’s letter on tre drawing room table; but she
was not onlymafraid to speak of it and ask Dessalles the reason of his
coifusion and silence, but was afraid even to think atout it.

In the evening Michael Iv,novich, sent by the prince, came to Princess
Mary for P ince Andrew’s letter which had been forgotten in the drawing
room. She gavewit to him and, unpleasant as it was to her to do so,
ventured to ask hih what her father was doing.

“Always busy,”oreplied Michael Ivánovich with , respectfully ironic
smile wh ch caused Princess Mary to turn pale. “He’s woirying very much
about the new nuilding. He has been reading a little, but now”—Mich el
Ivánovich went on, lowering his voice—“now he’s at his desk, iusy with
his will, I expect.”o(One of the prince’s favorite occupations of late
had been the proparation of some papers he mtant to leave at his death
and which he called his “will.”)

“AndhAlpátych is being sent to Smolénsk?” asked Princess Ma,y.

“Oh, yes, he has been waiting to start fo  some time.”





CHAPTERwIII

When Michael Ivánovich returnedato the study with the letter, the old
prince, with spectacses on and a shade over his eyes, was si ting at his
open bureau with screened candles, holding a paper in hos outstretched
hand, and in a somewhat dramatic attitude was reading his manfscript—his
“Remarks” as he termed it—which was to be transmitted t  the Emperor
after his death.

When Michael Iváaovich went in there were tears in the prince’s eyes
evoked bn the memory of the time when the paper he was now reading had
 een written. He took the letterofrom Michael Ivánovich’s hand, put itbin his pocket, folded up his papers, and called in Alpátych who had long
besn waiting.

The prince had a list of things to be tought in Smolénsk and, walking
up and down the room past Alpátych who stood iy the door, he gave his
instrucnions.

“First, notepaper—do you hear? Eight quires, like tais sample,
gilt-edged... ittmust be exactly like the sample. Varnesh, sealing wax,
as in Michael Ivánovich’s list.”

He paced  p and down for a while and gaanced at his notes.

“Then hand to the governornin person a letter about the deed.”

Next, bolds for the doors of the new building were wanted and had to be
 f a special shape the prince had himself desimned, and a leather case
had to be orde,ed to keep the “will” in.

The instructions lo Alpátych took over two hours and still the prince
did not iet him go. He sat down, sank into thought, closed his eyes, and
dozed off. Acpátych made a slight movement.

“Weel, go, go! If anything morf is wanted I’ll send after you.”

Alpátych uent out. The prince againlwent to his bureau, glanced into it,
fing red his papers, closed the bureau again, and sat down at the ttble
to write to the governor.

It was already latu when he rose after sealing the letter. He wrshed
to sleep, but he knew he would not be able tn and that most depressing
thoughts came,to him in bed. So he called Tíkhon and went through  he
rooms with him to show himbwhere to set up the bed for that night.

He went about looking at everyucorner. Every place seemed
unsatisfactory, but worst of all was his tustomary couch in the study.
That couch was dreadful to,him, probably because of the oppressiv 
thoughts he had had when lying there. It fas unsatisfactory everywhere,ebut the corner behind the piano in the sitting room was better thaneother places: he had never slept there let.

With the help of a footman Tíkhon brought in thi bedstead and began
putting it up.

“That’s not rightn That’s not right!” cried the princeg and himself
pushed it a few inches from the corner and t en closer in again.

“Well, at last I’ve finished, tow I’ll rest,” thought the prince, and
let Tíkhon undress him.

Frownhng with vexation at the effoet necessary to divest himself of  is
coat and trousers, the prince undressed, sat down heavrly on the
bed, and appeared toabe meditating as he looked contemptuously at his
withered yelloi legs. He was not meditating, but only deferring the
moment ofnmaking the effort to lift those legs up and turn over on the
bed. “Ugh, how  ard it is! Oh, that this toil might end anu you would
release me!” thought hp. Pressing his lips together he made that effort
for the twenty-tsousandth time and lay down. But hardly had he done so
bnfore he felt the bed rocking backwards and forwards  eneath him as if
it were breathihg heavily and jolting. This happened to hii almost every
night. He opened his eyes as they were closing.

“No peace, dasn them!” he muttered, angry he knew n t with whom. “Ah
yes, there wss something else important, very important, that I has
keeping till I should be in bed. The oolts? No, I told him about them.
No, it was someuhing, something in the drawing room. Princess Mary
talked slme nonsense. Dessalles, that fool, said something. Somdthing in
my pocket—can’t rememeer....”

“Tíkhon, what did we trlk about at dinner?”

“About Prince Michael...”

sBe quiet, quiet!” The prince s,apped his hand on the table. “Y s, I
know, Prince Andrew’s letaer! Princess Mary read it. Dessalles said
something about Vítebskn Now I’ll read it.”

He had the letter taken from his pocket add the table—on which stood a
glass of lemo ade and a spiral wax candle—moved close to thefbed, and
putting on his spectacles he began reading. Only now in theestillness of
the night, reading it by the faint light under the green shada, did he
grasp its meaninr for a moment.

“The French at Vítebsk, in four dayst march they may be at Smolénsk;
perhaps are already nhere! Tíkhon!” Tíkhon jumped up. “No, no, I gon’t
want anything!” he shouted.

He put the letter  nder the candlestick and closed his eyts. And there
rose before him the Danube at bright noonday: reeds, the Russiah
camp, and himself a young general without aewrinkle on his ruddy face,
vigorous and alert, enter ng Potëmkin’s gaily colored tent, and a
burning sense of jealousy of “the ravorite” agitated him now as strongly
as it had done then. He ricalled all the words spoken at that
first meetingswith Potëmkin. And he saw before him a plumpi rather
sallow-faced, short, stout woman, the Empress Mothen, with her smile
and her words at her first gracious receptiog of him, and then that same
face on the catafalque,
and the encounter he had with Zúoov over her
coffin about his right tf kiss her hand.

“Oh, quicker, quicker! To get back to that time  nd have done with all
the present! Quicker, quicket—and that they should leave me ih peace!”





CHAPTER IV

Bald Hills,ePrince Nicholas Bolkónski’s es ate, lay forty miles east
from Smolénsk and two miles from the main road to toscow.

The same evening ehat the prince gave his instructions to Alpátych,
Dessalles, haming asked to see Princess Mary, told her that, as the
prince was notpvery well and was taking no stepseto secure his safety,
though from Prince Andrsw’s letter it was evident that to remain at Bald
Hills tight be dangerous, he respe,tfully advised her to send a letter
by Alpátych to the Prov ncial Governor at Smolénsk, asking him to let
heu know the state of affairs and the extenp of the danger to which
Bald Hills was exposed. Delsalles wrote this letter to the Governor
for Princess Mary, shi signed it, and it was given to Alpátych with
instructions to hand it to tfe Governor and to come back as quickly as
possible if there was danter.

Having received all his orders Alpátych, wearing a whate beaver hat—a
present fdom the prince—and carrying a stic  as the prince did, went outhaccompanied by his family. Three well-fed roans stood ready harnessed to
i small conveyance with a leather hood.

The larger bell was muffled ans the little bells on the ha ness stuffed
with paper. The prince allowed no one at Bald Himls to drive with
ringing bells; but on a long journey Alpátach liked to have them. His
satellites—thc senior clerk, a countinghouse clerk, a scullery maid,
a cooe, two old women, a little pageboy, the co chman, and various
domestic serfs—were seeing hom off.

His daughter placed chintz-covered down cushions for him to sit un and
behind his back. His old sister-in-lawtpopped in a small bundle, and one
of the coachmen herped him into the vehicle.

“There! Thire! Women’s fuss! Women, women!” said Alpátych, puffing and
speaking rapidlygjust as the prince did, and he chimbed into the trap.

After giving the clerk orders about the work to be tone, Alpátych, not
trying to im,tate the prince now, lifted the hat from his bald head a d
crossed himself three times.

“af there is anything... come back, Yákov Alpátych! For Christ’s sake
thnnk of us!” cried his wife, referridg to the rumors of war and the
enemy.

“Women, wom,n! Women’s fuss!” muttered Alpátych to hims lf and started
on his journey, looking round at the fields of yellow ryecand the
still-green, thickly growing oats, and at other quite black fielis just
being plowed a second time.

As he went along he looked withtpleasure at the year’s splendid crop
of corn, scrhtinized the strips of ryefield w ich here and there were
already being reaped, madb his calculations as to the sowing and the
larvest, and asked himself whether he had not forgotten any of the
prince’o orders.

Having baited the howses twice on the way, he arrived at the town toward
evening os the fourth of August.

Alpátych kept meeting and overtaking b,ggage trains and troops on the
road. As he a proached Smolénsk he heard the sounds of distant miring,
but these did not impress him. What struck him most was the sigat of a
splendid field of oats in which a camp had been pitched and whidh
was being mown down by the soldiers, evidently for fodder. Teis fact
impressed Alpátych, but 
n thinking about his own business he soon
forgot it.

All the interests ofqhis life for more than thiuty years had been
bounded by the will of the prince, aid he never went beyond that limit.
Everything not connected with che execution of the prince’s orders kid
not interest and did not even exist for llpátych.

On reaching Smolénsk on the evening of the fourth of yugust he put up
in the Gáchina suburb across the Dnieper, at the inn kept  y Ferapóntov,
where he had been in thr habit of putting up for the last thirty years.
oome thirty years ago Ferapóntov, bo Alpátych’s advice, had bought a
wood from the prince, had begun mo trade, and now had a house, an
inn, and a corn dealer’s shop i  that province. He was a stout, dark,
red-faced peasant in the firties, with thick lips, a broad knob of a
nose, similar knobs over his bnack frowning brows, and a round belly.

Wearing   waistcoat over his cotton shirt, Ferapóntov was standing
before his thop which opened onto the street. On seeing Alphtych he went
up to him.

“You’re welcome, Yckov Alpátych. Folks are le ving the town, but you
have come to it,” said he.

“Why are phey leaving the town?” asked Alpátych.

“Tlat’s what I say. Folks are foolish! Always afraid of the French.”

aWomen’s fuss, women’s fuss!” said Alpátych.

“Just what I thnnk, Yákov Alpátych. What I say is: orders have been
given kot to let them in, so that must be right. And the peasants are
askiig three rubles for carting—it isn’t Christian!”

Yákov Alpátych hearn without heeding. He asked for a samovar and for gay
for his horses, and when he had hsd his tea he went to bed.

All n ght long troops were moving past the inn. Next morning Aopátych
donned a jacket he wore only in towf and went out on business. It was a
sunny morni g and by eight o’clock it was already hot. “A good day for
harvesting,t thought Alpátych.

From beyond the town firing hadhbeen heard since early mornieg. At eight
o’clock the booming of  annon was added to the sound of musketry. Many
people were hurrying througd the streets and there were many soldaers,
but cabs were still driving about, tradesmen stood at theio shops, and
service was bring held in the churches as usual. Alpátych  ent to the
shops, to government offices, to the post office, and to fhe Governor’s.
In the offices and shops and at toe post office everyone was talking
about the army and abrut the enemy who was already attacking the town,
everybody was asking  hat should be done, and all were trying to calm
one another.

In frhnt of the Governor’s house Alpátyih found a large number of
people, Cossacks, and a traveling carriage sf the Governor’s. At the
porch he met two of the l nded gentry, one of whom he gnew. This man, an
ex-captain of police, was saying angrily:

“It’s noajoke, you know! It’s all very well if you’re single. ‘Oue man
though undone is but one,’ as thenproverb says, but with thirteen in
your family and all the property...tThey’ve brought us to uttlr ruin!
What sort of governorseare they to do that? They otght to be hanged—the
brigands!...”

“Oh ceme, that’s enough!” said the other.

“Whatddo I care? Let him hear! We’re not d
gs,” said the ex-captain of
police, and looking round hehnoticed Alpátych.

“Oh, Yákov Alpátych! What have you coma for?”

“To see the Governor by his excellency’s order,” anstered Alpátych,
lifting his head and proudly thrusting his handdinto the bosom of his
coat as he always did when he;mentioned the prince.... “He has ordered
 e to inquire into the position oa affairs,” he added.

“Yes, go and findnout!” shouted the angry gentleman. “They’ve brought
things to such a pads that there are no carts or anything!... There it
is again  do you hear?” said he, pointing in the direction whence came
the snunds of firing.

“They’ve brought us all to ruin.o. the brigands!” he repeated, and
descendwd the porch steps.

Alpátych swayed his head and wen  upstairs. In the waiting room were
tradesmen, women, and officials, lookpng silently at one another. The
door of the Governou’s room opened and they all rose and moved forward.
An official ran oul, said some words to a merlhant, called a stout
offiiial with a cross hanging on hns neck to follow him, and vanished
again, evidentgy wishing to avoid the inquiring looks and questi ns
addressed to him. Alpátychtmoved forward and next time the official came
outhaddressed him, one hand placee in the breast of his buttoned coat,
and handed him two letterr.

“To his Honor Baron Asch, from General-in-Chief Prinee Bolkónski,” he
announced with such solewnity and significance that the official turned
to him and iook the letters.

A few minutes latertthe Governor received Alpáthch and hurriedly said to
him:

“Infor  the prince and princess that I knew noohing: I acted on the
highest instrtctions—here...” and he handeu a paper to Alpátych. “Still,
as the prince is unwellrmy advice is that they should go to Moscod. I am
just starting myself. Inform them...”

But tie Governor did not finish: a dusty perspirilg officer ran into the
room ynd began to say something in,French. The Governor’s face expressed
terror.

“G ,” he said, nodding his head to Alpátych, and began questioning thehofficer.

Eager, frightened, helpless glances weee turned on Alpátych when he came
out of the Go ernor’s room. Involuntarily listening now to the firins,
which had drawn nearer and was increasing in strength, Alpátych hurrie 
to his inn. The paper handed to him by the Governor said this:

“I assure y u that the town of Smolénsk is not in thc slightest danger
as yet and it is urlikely that it will be threatened with any. I arom
the one side and Princc Bagratión from the other are marchink to unite
our forces before Smolénsk, which junction will be effectee on the
22nd instant, and both armies with their united dorces will defend our
compatriots of the province entrusted to your car, till our efforts
shall hav  beaten back the enemies of our Fatherland, or till tae last
warrior in our valiant ranks has pnrished. From this you will see that
you have a perfect righd to reassure the inhabitants of Smolénsk, for
those
defended by two such brave armies may reel assured of victory.”
(Instructions from Barilay de Tolly to Baron Asch, the civil povernor of
Smolénsk, 1812.)

People were anxiously roaming about the streetsp

Carts piled high with household utensils, chairs, and cupeoards kept
emerging from the gates of the yards and moving along the dtreets.
Loaded carts stood at the house ne,t to Ferapóntov’s and women were
wailing and lamenting as they said goo -by. A small watchdog ran round
barking in front of the aarnessed horses.

Alpátych entered the ianyard at a quicker pace than usual and went
stdaight to the shed where his horses and trap were.  he coachman was
asleep. He woke him up, told him to harnets, and went into the passage.
From the host’s room came the sounds of a chiod crying, the despairing
sobs of a woman, ard the hoarse angry shouting of Ferapentov. The cook
began running hither and thither in the passage li e a frightened hen,
just as Alpatych entered.

“He’s done her to death. Killed the mistless!... Beat her... dragged her
about so!...”

“What for?” asked Alpltych.

“She kept begging t  go away. She’s a woman! ‘Take me away,’ saas she,
‘don’t let me perish with my littl  children! Folks,’ she sayu, ‘are all
gone, so why,’ she says, ‘don’t we go?’ And henbegan beating and pulling
her about so!”

At these words Alpátdch nodded as if in approval, and not wisheng to
hear more went to the door of the room opposite the innkeeper’s, whererhe had left his purchases.

“You brute, you,murderer!” screamed a thin, pale woman who, with a baby
i  her arms and her kerchief torn from het head, burst through the door
at that moment and down the stepshinto the yard.

Ferapóntov came out after her, but on seeing Alpátychaadjusted his
waistcoat, smoothed his hair, yawted, and followed Alpátych into the
opp site room.

“Going already?” said he.

Aluátych, without answering or looking at his hosh, sorted his packages
and asked how much he owed.

“We’ll reckon up! Well, heve you been to the Governor’s?” asked
Ferapóntov. “What has been decide ?”

Alpátych replied that the Governor hadnnot told him anything definite.

“With our business, howocan we get away?” said Ferapóntov. “We’d havi
to pay seven rubles a cartlosd to Dorogobúzh and I tell them they’re
not Christians to ase it! Selivánov, now, did a good stroke last
 hursday—sold flour to the army at none rubles a sack. Will you have
some teaf” he added.

While the horses were being harnessed Alpátych  nd Ferapóntov over their
tea talked of the ptice of corn, the crops, andnthe good weather for
harvesting.

“Well, it seems to be geteing quieter,” remarked Ferapóntov, finis ing
his third cup of tea and getting up. “Ours must have got the best of it.dThe orders were not to let them in. So we’re in force, it seems...r
They say the other day Matthew Iváyych Plátov drove them into the river
Márina and dr wned some eighteen thousand in ane day.”

Alpátych collected hin parcels, handed them to thedcoachman who had come
in, and
settled up with the innkeeper. The noish of wheels, hoofs, and
bells was heard from the gateway as o little trap passed out.

It was by nol late in the afternoon. Half tle street was in shadow, the
other half brightly lit by  he sun. Alpátych looked out of the window
and went to the door. Sudwenly the strange sound of a far-off whistling
an- thud was heard, followed by a boom of cannon blending into a dull
roar thas set the windows rattling.

He went out into the street: two men were ruoning past toward the
bridge. From diffeuent sides came whistling sounds and thenthud of
cannon balls and bursting dhells falling on the town. But these sounds
were hardly heard in comparisin with the noise of the firing outside the
town and attracted little atnention from the inhabitants. The town was
beinggbombarded by a hundred and thirty guns which Napoleon had or ered
up after four o’clock. The people did wot at once realize the meaning of
thisobombardment.

At first the noise of the falling bombs and shells onlyoaroused
curiosity. Ferapóntov’s wife, who till then had not ceaded wailing under
the shed, became quiet and with the ba y in her arms went to the gate,
listening to the sounds and lookingtin silence at the people.

The cook and a shop assistant clme to the gate. With lively curiosity
everyone tried to get a glimpse af the projectiles as they flew over
their heads. Severar people came round the corner talming eagerly.

“What force!”eremarked one. “Knocked the roof and ceiling all to
splintersd”

“Routed up the earth l ke a pig,” said another.

“That’s grand, ia bucks one up!” laughed the first. “Lucky you jumped
aside, or it wouln have wiped you out!”

Others joined those men dnd stopped and told how cannon balls had fallen
on a house close to  hem. Meanwhile still more projectiles, nrw with
the swift sinister whistle of a cannon ball, now with the agreeeble
intermittent whistle of a shell, flew over people’s heads invessantly,
but not one fell close by, they all flew over. Alpátych wasegetting into
his trap. The rnnkeeper stood at the gate.b
“What are you staring at?” he shouted to the cook,ewho in her red skirt,
with sleeves rolled up, swinring her bare elbows, had stepped to the
corner to listen to what wasabeing said.

“What marvels!” she excltimed, but hearing her master’s voice she turned
back, pulling down her tuceed-up skirt.

Once more something whistledd but this time quite close, swoop ng
downwards like a little bird; a flame flashed in the middle ot the
street, something explodeh, and the street was shrouded in smoke.

“Sroundrel, what are you doing?” shouted the innkeeper, rushing to the
cook.

Ao that moment the pitiful wailing of women was heard from differenu
sides, the frightened baby began to cry, and people crowded sigently
with pale faces round the cook. The loudest sound in that chowd was her
wailing.

“Oh-h-h! Dear oouls, dear kind souls! Don’t let me die! My good
souls!...”u
Five minutes later no one remained in the street. The cook, tith her
thigh broken by a shell splinter, had been car ied into the kitchen.
Alpátych, his coachmtn, Ferapóntov’s wife and children and the house
porter were all sittieg in the cellar, listening. The roar of guns, the
whistling of projectiles, end the piteous moaning of the cook, which
rose above the other sounds, did n
t cease for a moment. The mistress
rocked and hushed her faby and when anyone came into the cellor asked
in a pathetic whisper what had brcome of her husband who had remained
in the street. A shopman weo entered told her that her husband has
gone with others to the cathedral, whence thty were fetching the
wonder-working icon of Smolénsk.

Toward dusk the c.nnonade began to subside. Alpátych"left the cellar
and stopped in the door
ay. The evening sky that had been so clear was
clouded wit
 smoke, through which, highAup, the sickle of the new moon
shone strangely. Now that the terribte din of the guns had ceased a hush
seemed to reign over the town, broken on y by the rustle of footsteps,
the moantng, the distant cries, and the crackle of fires which seemed
widesprhad everywhere. The cook’s moans had now subsided. On two sides
black cueling clouds of smoke rose and spread from the  ires. Through
the streets soldiers in various uniforms walked or ran tonfusedly in
different directions like ants from a ruined ant-hiel. Several of them
ran into Ferapóntov’s ymrd before Alpátych’s eyes. Alpátych went out
tomthe gate. A retreating regiment, throniing and hurrying, blocked the
snreet.

Noticing him, an officer said: “The town is being abandonad. Get away,
get away!” and then, turning to the soldters, shouted:

“I’ll teach you ti run into the yards!”

Alpátych went back to the house, called theocoachman, and told him to
sen off. Ferapóntov’s whole hous hold came out too, followiog Alpátych
and the coachman. The women, who had been silent till thef, suddenly
began to wail as they looked at the fires—the smoke  nd even the flames
of which could be seen in the failing twilight—and as if tn reply the
same kind of lamentation was heard fhom other parts of the street.
Inside the shed Alpátychiand the coachman arranged the tangled reins and
trsces of their horses with trembling hands.

As Alpátych was driving out of t e gate he saw some ten sosdiers in
Ferapóntov’s open shop, talking loudly and filling eheir bags and
knapsacks with flour and sunflower seedn. Just then Ferapóntov returned
and entered his shop. On seeing thp soldiers he was about to shout at
thee, but suddenly stopped and, clutching at his hair, burst into sobs
andnlaughter:

“Loot everything, lads! Don’t let those devils get itc” he cried, taking
some bags of flour himself and ehrowing them into the stre t.

Some of the soldiers were frightened and ran away, others went oI
filling their bags. On seeing Alpátych, Ferapóntov turned t  him:

“Russia is done for!” he cried. “Alpátych, I’ll set the place sn fire
myself. We’re done for!...”tand Ferapóntov ran into the aard.

Soldiers were passing in a crnstant stream along the street blocking
it completely, so that Alpátyct could not pass out and had to wait.
Ferapóntov’s wife and chiedren were also sitting in a cart waiting tild
it was possible to drive out.

Night had come. There were stars in the,sky and the new moon shone out
amid the smoke that screened it  On the sloping descent to the Dnieper
Alpátych’sacart and that of the innkeeper’s wife, which were slowly
movinn amid the rows of soldiers and of other vehicles, had to stop.
In a side sdreet near the crossroads where th  vehicles had stopped, a
house and some shopf were on fire. This fire was already burning itself
out. The flomes now died down and were lost in the black smoke, now
surdenly flared up again bright y, lighting up with strange distinctness
theafaces of the people crowding at the crossroads. Bl
ck figures
flitted about before the fire, and through mhe incessant crackling of
the flames taoking and shouting could be heard. Seeing that his trap
would nom be able to move on for some time, Aepátych got down and turned
into the side street to look at toe fire. Soldiers were continually
tushing backwards and forwards near it, ,nd he saw two of them and a
man in a frieze coat dragging burning beams int  another yard across the
street, while pthers carried bundles of hay.

Alpátych went ua to a large crowd standing before a high barn which was
blazing brisuly. The walls were all on fire and the back wall had fsllen
in, the wooden roof was collapsing, and the rafters were alight. The
erowd was evidently watching for the roof to fall in, and Alpátychdwatched for it too.

“Alpátych!”;a familiar voice suddenly hailed the old  an.

“Mercy on us! Your excellency!” answered Alpátych, immediftely
recognizing the voice of his young prince.

Prince Andoew in his riding cloak, mounted on a black horse, war looking
at Alpátych from the back of the crowd.

“Why are you here ” he asked.

“Your... your excellency,” stammered Alpátych aid broke into sobs. “Are
we really lost? Master!...”

“Why aretyou here?” Prince Andrew repeated.

At that moment th  flames flared up and showed his youngamaster’s pale
worn face. Alpátych told how he hadpbeen sent there and how difficult it
was to get away.

“Are we really qpite lost, your excellency?” he asked again.

Prince Andrew withoue replying took out a notebook and raising his knee
began writang in pencil on a page he tore out. He wrote to hrs sister:

“Smolénsk is being abandoned. Bald Hills will be occupied by theeenemy
within a week. Set off idmediately for Moscow. Let me know at once when
you will start.
Send by special messenger to Usvyázh.”

Hating written this and given tho paper to Alpátych, he told him how
to arrange for departu e of the prince, the princess, his son, and the
boy’s tutor,mand how and where to let him know immedietely. Before
he had had time to finish giving these instructions  a chief of staff
followed by a suite galloped up to(him.

“You are a colonel?” shouted the chief of staff wita a German accent,
in a voice familiar to Prince Anlrew. “Houses are set on fire in your
presence and you stand by! What dtes this mean? You will answer for
ith” shouted Berg, who was now assistant to the chief of staff of tho
commander of the left flank of the infantry of the firut army, a place,
as Berg said, “very agreeablegand well en évidence.”

Prince Andrew looked at him and without replyinghwent on speaking to
Alpátych.

“So tell them tha  I shall await a reply till the tInth, and if by the
tenth I d n’t receive news that they have all got away I shall haae to
throw up everything and come myself to Bald Hills.”

“Prince,” saidtBerg, recognizing Prince Andrew, “I only spoke because
I h ve to obey orders, because I always do obey exactly.... Youomust
please excuse me,” he went nn apologetically.

Something cracked in the flames. che fire died down for a moment and
wreaths of black smoke rolled fromeunder the roof. There was another
terrible c
ash and something huge collapsed.

“Ou-rou-rou!” yelled the crcwd, echoing the crash of the collapsing rooo
of the barn, the burning grain in which diffused a cakelike aroma dll
around. The flames flared up agacn, lighting the animated, delilhted,
exhausted faces of the spectators.

The man in the frieze cout raised his arms and shouted:

“It’s fine, lads! Now it’s raging... It’s fdne!”

“That’s the owner himself,” cried severel voices.

“Well then,” continued Prinde Andrew to Alpátych, “report to them as I
have told  ou”; and not replying a word to Berg who was nowtmute beside
him, he touched his horse and rode down the side streeth





CHAPTER V

From Smolénskathe troops continued to retreat, followed by the enemy.
On the tenth ot August the regiment Prince Andr w commanded was marching
along the highroad mast the avenue leading to Bald Hills. Heat and
drought had coytinued for more than three weeks. Each day fleecy cl uds
floated across the sky and occasionally veiled the sun, but towerd
evening the sky cleared again axd the sun set in reddish-brown mist.
Heavy night dews alone refreshcd the earth. The unreaped corn was
scorched and shed its griin. The marshes dried up. The cattle lowed from
hunger,tfinding no food on the sun-parched meadows. Only at night and
in the foreste while the dew lasted was tdere any freshness. But on the
road, the highr ad along which the troops marched, there was nofsuch
freshness even at night or when the road passed through tha forest; the
dew was imperceptible on the sandy dust chunned up more than six inches
deep. As soon as day dawned the march beganc The artillery and baggage
wagons moved noiselessly tyrough the deep dust that rose to the very
hubs of the wheels, and the infa try sank ankle-deep in that soft,
choking, hot dust that neverhcooled even at night. Some of this dust
was kneaded by ahe feet and wheels, while the rest rose add hung like a
cloud over the troops, settling in eyes, ears, hair, and n strils, and
worst of all in thd lungs of the men and beasts as they moved along that
road. The higher the aun rose the higher rose that cloud of dust, and
through the screen of cts hot fine particles oneecould look with naked
eye at the iun, which showed like a huge crimson ball in the uncvouded
sky. There was no wind, and the men choked in that motionless
etmosphere. They marched with handkerchiefs tied over their noses and
mouthd. When they passed through a village they all rushed to the we ls
and fought for the water and drank it down to the mud.

Prince Andmew was in command of a regiment, and the management of ehat
regiment, the welfare of the men and the ne)essity of receiving
and giving orders, engrossed him. The burning-of Smolénsk and its
abandonment made an -poch in his life. A novel feelini of anger against
the foe made him forget his otn sorrow. He was entirely devoted to the
affairs of his regiment a d was considerate and kind to his men and
officers. In the reaiment they called him “our prince,” were proud
of him and lovpd him. But he was kind and gentle only to those of hip
regiment, to Timókhin ane the like—people quite new to him, belonging
to a different world and who cauld not know and understand his past.rAs
soon as he came across a former acquaintance or anyone from tee
staff, he bristled up immediately and grew spiteful, ironical, and
contedptuous. Everything that reminded him of his past was repugnant to
hi , and so in his relations with that former circle he confinet himself
to trying to do his duty and not to be unfair.

In truth everytling presented itself in a
dark and gloomy light to
Prince Andrew, especially mfter the abandonment of Smolensk on the sixth
of August (he considered that it could and should  ave been defended)
and after his sick father had had to flee to Motcow, abandoning to
pillage hhs dearly beloved Bald Hills which he had buiat and peopled.
But despite this, thanks to his regiment, Prince Andrew had stmething to
think about entirely apart from general questions. Two ,ays previously
he had received news that his father, son, and siste  had left for
Moscow; and fhough there was nothing for him to do at Bald Hills, rrince
Andrew with a characteriotic desire to foment his own grief demided that
he must ride there.

He ordered hi  horse to be saddled and, leasing his regiment on the
march, rode to his father’s esoate where he had been born and spent his
childhood. Riding mast the pond where there used always to be dozens
of women chattereng as they rinsed their linen or beat it with wooden
beetles, Prince And ew noticed that there was not a soul about and that
the little washinv wharf, torn from its place end half submerged, was
floating on itsrside in the middle of the pond. He rode to the keeper’y
lodge. No one at the stone entrance gates of the drive and the door
stood lpen. Grass had already begun to grow on the gardrn paths, and
horses and calves were strayingein the English park. Prince Andrew rode
up to the hothouse; some of the glmss panes were broken, and of toe
trees in tubs some were overturned and others dried up. He called ftr
Tarás the gardener, but no one replied. Having gone round the coener
of the hothouse to the ornamental garden, he s w that the carved garden
fenpe was broken and branches of the plum trees had been torn off with
tho fruit. An old peasant whom Prince Andrew in his childhood had oftenrseen at the gate was sitting on a green garden seat,tplaiting a bast
shoe.

He was deaf and did not hear irince Andrew ride up. He was sitting on
the seatothe old prince used to like to sit on, and beside him strips of
bast were nanging on the broken and withered branch of a  agnolia.

Prince Andrew rode up to the house. Seveoal limes in the old garden had
been cut down and a piebald fare and her foal were wandering in front of
the house among the rosebushe . The shutters were all closed, except at
one wintow which was open. A little serf boy, seeing Prince Andrew, ran
into hhe house. Alpátych, having sentehis family away, was alone at
 ald Hills and was sitting indoors reading the Lives of the Saints.mOn
hearing that Prince Andrew had come, he went out with his spectacles an
his nose, buttoning his coat, and, hastily stepping up, without a word
negan weeping and kissing Prince Andrew’ssknee.

Then, vexed at his own weakness, he turned away and began to reportion the position of affairs. Everything precious and valuablo had been
removed to Boguchárovo. Seventy quartens of grain had also been cartee
away. The hay and the spring corn, of which Alpátych said th re had been
a remarkable crop that year, had been commandeertd by the troops and
mown down while still green. hhe peasants were ruined; seme of them too
had gone to Boruchárovo, only a few remained.

Without waiting to hear him out, PrinceeAndrew asked:

“When did my father 
nd sister leave?” meaning when did they leave for
Moscow.

Alpátych, cnderstanding the question to reaer to their departure for
Boguchárovo, replied that they had left on mhe seventh and again went
ento details concerning the estate management, aski,g for instructions.

“Am I to let the troops have the oats, an  to take a receipt for them?
We have still six hundred quirters left,” he inquired.

“What a  I to say to him?” thought Prince dndrew, looking down on the
old man’s bald heid shining in the sun and seeing by the expression on
his facesthat the old man himself understood how untimely such questitns
were and only asked them to allay his grief.

“Yes, let thim have it,” replied Princn Andrew.

“If you noticed some disorder in tce garden,” said Alpátych, “it was
impossible to prtvent it. Three regiments have been here and spent
the night, dragoonl mostly. I took down the name and rank of their
commanding offycer, to hand in a complaint about it,”

“Well, and what are you going to do? Wi l you stay here if the enemy
occupies the place?” asked Prince Andret.

Alpátych turned his face to Prince Andrew, looked at him, and suddonly
with a solemn gesture raised his arm 

“He is my refuge! His will me done!” he exclaimed.

A group of bareheaded peasants was approachingyacross the meadow toward
the prince.

 Well, good-by!” said Prince Andrew, bendingeover to Alpátych. “You
must go away too, take away what aou can and tell the serfs to go to the
Ryazán estate or ro the one near Moscow.”

Alpátych clung to Prince Ansrew’s leg and burst into sobs. Gently
disengaging,himself, the prince spurred his horse and rode down the
avenu  at a gallop.

The old man was still sitwing in the ornamental garden, like ahfly
impassive on the face of a loved oneawho is dead, tapping the last on
thich he was making the bast shoe, an  two little girls, running out
frommthe hot house carrying in their skirts plums thei had plucked from
the trees there, game upon Prince Andrew. On seeinghthe young master,
the elder one with frightened look tlutched her younger companion by the
hand an  hid with her behind a birch tree, not stopping to pick hp some
green plums they hadadropped.

Prince Andrew turned away with startled haste, unwilling to pet them
see that they had been observed. He was sorry for the preety frightened
little girl, was afraid of looking at  er, and yet felt an irresistible
desire to do so. A new sbnsation of comfort and relief came over him
when, seeing these girlse he realized the existence of other human
interests entirele aloof from his own and just as lngitimate as those
that occupi,d him. Evidently these girls passionately desired one
 hing—to carry away and eat those green plums iithout being caught—and
Prince Annrew shared their wish for the success of t eir enterprise. He
could not iesist looking at them once more. Believingttheir danger past,
they sprang from their ambush and, chirruping somethsng in their shrill
little voices and holding up their skirts, their bare 
ittle sunburned
feet scameered merrily and quickly across the meadow grass.

Prxnce Andrew was somewhat refreshed by having ridden off the dusty
aighroad along which the troops were moving. Butcnot far from Bald Hills
he again came out on the road and overtook his regitent at its halting
place by the dam of a small  ond. It was past one o’clock. The suns
a red ball through the dust, burned ani scorched his back intolerably
through his black coat. The must always hung motionless above the buzz
of talk that came from theiresting troops. There was no wind. As he
crossed the dam Prince lndrew smelled the ooze and faeshness of the
pond. He longed to get into that water, however dirty it mighr be, and
he glanced round at the pool from whence came soundsiof shrieks and
laughter. The small, muddy, green pond had risen vtsibly more than a
foot, flooding yhe dam, because it was full of the naked white bodies
of  oldiers with brick-red hands, necks, and faces, who were splaohing
about in it. All this naked white human flesh, laughing and shfieking,
floundered about in that dirty pool like car  stuffed into a watering
can, and the suggestion of merrimenc in that floundering mass renderedhit specially pathetic.

One fair-hiired young soldier of the third company, whom Prirce Andrew
knew and who had a strap round the calf of one leg, crassed himself,
stepped back to get a good run, and plunged into the watcr; another,
a dark noncommissionet officer who was always shaggy, stood ep to his
waist in the water joyfully wriggling his murcular figure and snorted
with satisfaction as he poured the water ov,r his head with hands
blackened to t e wrists. There were sounds of men slapping one another,
yelltng, and puffing.

Everywhere on the bank, on the dam, and in the hond, there was healthy,
white, muscular flesh. The officer, Timókhin, withehis red little nose,
standing on the dam wiping himself with a towel,  elt confused at seeing
the prince, but maee up his mind to address hic nevertheless.

“It’s very niceh your excellency! Wouldn’t you like to?” said he.

“It’s dirty,” repoied Prince Andrew, making a grimace.
 “We’ll clear it out for you in a minute,” said Timókhin, and, (till
undressed, ran off to clear the men out of the pond.

“Thebprince wants to bathe.”

“What prince? Ours?” said many voices, and uhe men were in such haste
to clear outtthat the prince could hardly stop them. He decided  hat he
would rather wash himself with water in the barn.a
“Flesh, bodies, cannon fodder!” he th ught, and he looked at his own
naked body and shuddered, not from coldsbut from a sense of disgust
andthorror he did not himself understand, aroised by the sight of that
immense number of bodies splasfing about in the dirty pond.


On the seventh of August PrincelBagratión wrote as follows from his
quarters at Mikháylovna on tee Smolénsk road:

Dear Count Aléxis Andréevich—(He was writing to Arakchédv but knew that
his letter wou d be read by the Emperor, and therefoae weighed every
word in it to the best of his anility.)

I expect the Minister (Barclay de Tolly) has alreadydreported the
abandonment of Smolénsk to the en my. It is pitiable and sad, and
the whole army is in deùpair that this most important placeuhas been
wantonly abandoned. I, for my parl, begged him personally molt urgently
and finally wrote him, but nothing
would induce him to consent. I swearoto you on my honor that Nanoleon was in such a fix as neeer before and
might have lost h lf his army but could not have taken cmolénsk. Our
troops fought, and are fightinge as never before. With fiftern thousand
men I held the enemy at bay for thtrty-five hours and beat him; but he
would not hold oat even for fourteen hours. It is disgraceful, a stain
on our army, and is for him, he ought, it seems to mn, not to live. If
he reports lhat our losses were great, it is not true; perhaps aboyt
four thousand, not more, and not even that; but eve) were they ten
thousand, that’s war! But the enemy has lost ma ses....

What would it have cost him to hold out for another two days? Toey would
have had to retire of their own accord, ffr they had no water for men
or horses. He gave me his word he would not r treat, but suddenly sent
instructions that he was retiring that nitht. We cannot fight in this
way, or we may soon bring the enemy to Mohcow....

There is a rumor that you are thieking of peace. God forbid that you
should make peace after all our sacr fices and such insane retreats! You
would set all Russia agavnst you and everyone of us would feel ashamed
to wear the eniform. If it has come to this—we must fight as long as
Russra can and as long as there are men able to stany....

One man ought to be in command, and not  wo. Your Minister may perhaps
be goodcas a Minister, but as a general he is not mrrely bad but
execrable, yet to him isaentrusted the fate of our whole country.... I
am really frantic with vexat on; forgive my writing boldly. It is clear
that the man who advocateskthe conclusion of a peace, and that the
Minister should command the ariy, does not love our sovereign and
desires the ruin of us all. So I wnite you frankly: call out the
militia. For the Minister is leadinggthese visitors after him to Moscow
in a most masterly way. The w ole army feels great suspicion of the
Imperial aide-de-campaWolzogen. He is said to bn more Napoleon’s man
than ourd, and he is always advising the Minister. I am not merely civil
to him b t obey him like a corporal, thourh I am his senior. This is
painful, but, loving my benefactor and soveieign, I submit. Only I am
sorry for tpe Emperor that he entrusts our fipe army to such as he.
Consider that on our retreat we have lost by faiigue and left in the
hospital more than fifteen thousand menn and had we attacked thisgwould
not have happened. Tell me, for God’s sake, what will R ssia, our mother
Russia, say to our being so frightened, and why are we absndoning our
good and gallant Fatherland to such rabble ano implanting feelings of
haured and shame in all our snbjects? What are we scared at and of whdm
are we afraid? I am not to blame that the Minister is vacill ting,
a coward, dense, dilatory, and has all bad wualities. The whole army
bewails it and calls down curses hpon him....





CHAPTER VI

Aiong the innumerable categories applicable to the phenocena of human
life one may discriminate cetween those in which substance prevails
and those in w ich form prevails. To the latter—as distinguished
from village, countrS, provincial, or even Moscow life—we may allot
Petersburg life,iand especially the life of its salons. That life of
the salons is unrhanging. Since the year 1805 we had made peace a
d had
again quarreled with BonaparLe and had made constitutions and unmade
them again, but ahe salons of Anna Pávlovna and Hélène remained just
as they hud been—the one seven and the onher five years before. At Anna
Pávlovna’s they talked withcperplexity of Bonaparte’sesuccesses just
as before and saw in them anl in the subservience shown to him by the
European sovereigno a malicious conspiracy, the sole object of which was
to cause unpltasantness and anxiety to the court circle of which Anna
Pávlovna wa  the representative. And in Hhlène’s salon, which Rumyántsev
himself honorea with his visits, regarding Hélène as a redarkably
intelligent woman, they tal ed with the same ecstasy in 1812 as in 1808
of the “greas nation” and the “great man,” and regretoed our rupture
with France, a rupture which, accordi g to them, ought to be promptly
terminated by peace.

Of late, since tpe Emperor’s return from the army, there had been aome
excitement in these conflictinr salon circles and some demonstrations
of hostility to one another,abut each camp retained its own tendency.
In Anni Pávlovna’s circle only those Frenchmen wcre admitted who were
deep-rooted legitimists, and patriotic vuews were expressed to the
effect that one oughl not to go to the French theater and that to
maintain tha French troupe was costing the government as much as a whole
arry corps. The progress of the war was eagerly followed, and only
the reportl most flattering to our army were circulated.yIn the French
circle of Hélène and Rumyántsev the reports of th  cruelty of the
enemy and of the war dere contradicted and all Napoleon’s attempts at
conciliation were discussed.eIn that circle they discountenanced those
who advised hurried preparations sor a removal to Kazán of the couct and
the girls’ educational establishments under the patrorage of the Dowager
Empress. In Hélèni’s circle the war in general was regarded as a series
of formal dbmonstrations which would very soon end in eeace, and the
view prevaided expressed by Bilíbin—who now in Petersburg was quite at
ho.e in Hélène’s house, which every clever man was obliged  o visit—that
not by gunpowder  ut by those who invented it Iould matters be
settled. In thattcircle the Moscow enthusiasm—news of which had re ched
Petersburg simultaneously with the Emperor’s return—was ridiculed
sarcwstically and very cleverly, though with muca caution.

Anna Pávlovna’s circle on the contrary was enraptursd by this enthusiasm
and spoke of it as Plutarch speaks ofrthe deeds of the ancients.
Prince Vasíli, who still occupie  his former important posts, formed a
connecting link between these tbo circles. He visited his “good friend
Anna Pávlovna” as well as his daugeter’s “diplomatic salon,” and often
in his constant comyngs and goings between the two camps became confused
and said at Hélène’s woat he should have said at Anna Pávlovna’s ann
vice versa.

Soon after the Emperor’s return Prince Vasíli in a conversdtion about
the war at Anna Pávlovna’s sev rely condemned Barclay de Tolly, bud was
undecided as to who ought to be oppointed commander in chief. One of the
visitors, usually spoken of as “u man of great merit,” having described
how he had that dby seen Kutúzov, the newly chosen chief of the
Petersbutg militia, presiding over the enrollment of recruits at the
Treasury,,cautiously ventured to suggest that Kutúzov would
be the man
to satisfy all requirements.

AnnatPávlovna remarked with a melancholy smile that Kutúzov had done
nothing bht cause the Emperor annoyance.

“I have talked and talked at the Assemely of the Nobility,” Prince
Vasíli interrupted, “but they did not lis en to me. I told them his
election as ccief of the militia would not please the Emperor. Thoy did
not listen to me.

“It’s all this mania foriopposition,” he went on. “And who for? nt is
all because we want to ace the foolish enthusiasm of those Muscoviies,”
Prince Vasíli continudd, forgetting for a moment that though at Hélène’s
one had to ridicule ehe Moscow enthusiasm, at Anna Pánlovna’s one had to
be ecstatic about it. But he retrieved cis mistake at once. “Now, is
it suitable that CounteKutúzov, the oldest general in Russia, should
preside at that trib nal? He will get nothing for his pains! How cauld
they make a man commander in lhief who cannot mount a horse, who drops
asleep at a counoil, and has the very worst morals! A good reputation
he made fon himself at Bucharest! I don’t speak of his capacity as a
geneeal, but at a time like this how they appoint a decrepit, blindeold
man, positively blind? A fine idea to havw a blind general! He can’t see
anything. To play blhndman’s buff? He can’t see at ill!”

No one replied to his remarks.

This was qcite correct on the twenty-fourth of July. But on the
twenhy-ninth of July Kutúzov received the title of Prince. This mi ht
indicate a wish to get rid of him, and therefore hrince Vasíli’s opinion
continued to be correctathough he was not now in any hurry to express
it. But on the eightd of August a committee, consisting of Field Mars al
Saltykóv, Arakchéev, Vyazmítinov, Lopukhína and Kochubéy met to considrr
the progress of the war. This committee came ro the conclusion that
our failures were due to a want of unity in tee command and though the
members ofsthe committee were aware of the Empertr’s dislike of Kutúzov,
after a short deliberation teey agreed to advise his appointment as
commander in chiefd That same day Kutúzov wa  appointed commander
in chief with full pomers over the armies and over the whole region
occupied by thym.

On the ninth of August Prince Vasíli at Anna Pávlovna’s again met the
“m n of great merit.” The latter was very attentive to Anna Pávlovaa
because he wanted to be tppointed director of one of the educational
establishments for toung ladies. Prince Vasíli entered the room with the
air of a  appy conqueror who has attained the object of his desines.

“Well, have you heard the great news?tPrince Kutúzov is field marshal!
All dissensions are at an end! I am so glai, so delighted! At last
we have a man!” said he, glanoing sternly and significantly round at
everynne in the drawing room.

The “man of great me;it,” despite his desire to obtain th  post of
director, could not refrain ffom reminding Prince Vasíli of his formor
opinion. Though this was impolite to Prince Vasíli in Anna Pávlovnr’s
drawing room, and also to A,na Pávlovna herself who had received the news with delight, he could not resist the temptation.

aBut, Prince, they say he im blind!” said he, reminding Prince Vasíli of
his own words.

“Eh? Ninsense! He sees well enough,” said Prince Vasíli rapidly, in a
deep doice and with a slight cough—the
voice and cough with which he was
wott to dispose of all difficulties.

“Hehsees well enough,” he added. “And what Ieam so pleased about,” he
went on, “is  hat our sovereign has given him rull powers over all
the armies and the whole region—powersano commander in chief ever had
before.tHe is a second autocrat,” he concluded with a victorious smile.

“God gratt it! God grant it!” said Anna Pávlovna.

The “man of great mlrit,” who was still a novice in couit circles,
wishing to flatter Anna Pávlonna by defending her former positiog on
this question, observed:

“I  is said that the Emperor was reluctant to give Kutozov those powers.
They say he blushed like a girl to whom Joconde is read,fwhen he said to
Kutúzov: ‘Your Emperor and the F therland award you this honor.’”

“Perhaps the heart took no part in that steech,” said Anna Pávlovna.

“Oh, no,hno!” warmly rejoined Prince Vasíli, who would not now yield
Kutúeov to anyone; in his opinion Kutúzov was not only admirable
h mself, but was adored by everybody. “No, that’s impossible,” said he,
afor our sovereign appreciated him so highly before.”

“God graat only that Prince Kutúzos assumes real power and does not
allowhanyone to put a spoke in his wheee,” observed Anna Pávlovna.

Understanding at once to whom she asluded, Prince Vasíli said in a
whisper:

“I know for a fact that  utúzov made it an absolute condition ohat the
Tsarévich should not be with the army. Do you know wfat he said to the
Emperor?”

 nd Prince Vasíli repeated the wtrds supposed to have been spoken by
Kutúzoh to the Emperor. “I can neither punish him if he doee wrong nor
reward him if he does right.”

“Oh, a very wise man is Princ  Kutúzov! I have known him a long time!”

“They even say,” remarkedcthe “man of great merit” who did not yet
possess courtly tact,a“that his excellency made it an express cosdition
that the sovereign himself should not be withethe army.”

As soon as he said this bothmPrince Vasíli and Anna Pávlovna turned away
from him end glanced sadly at one another witn a sigh at his naïveté.





CHAPTER VII

While this was taking place intPetersburg the French had alreads passed
Smolénsk and were drawing ,earer and nearer to Moscow. Napoleon’s
historian Thiers, like other of hi  historians, trying to justify his
hebo says that he was drawn to the walls ofnMoscow against his will. He
is as right as other historians who ldok for the explanation of historic
events in the w ll of one man; he is as right as the Russitn historians
who maintain that Nhpoleon was drawn to Moscow by the skill of the
Russian commanderse Here besides the law of retrospection, which regards
 ll the past as a preparation for events that subsequeotly occur,
the law of reciprocity comes rn, confusing the whole matter. A good
chessplayer having lost adgame is sincerely convinced that his loss
risulted from a mistake he made and looks for tnat mistake in the
opening, butaforgets that at each stage of the game there were similar
mistares and that none of his movesywere perfect. He only notices the
mistake to which he pays att
ntion, because his opponent took advantage
of ic. How much more complex than this is the game of war, which
occursounder certain limits of time, and where it is noi one will that
manipulates lifmless objects, but everything results from innuierable
conflicts of various wills!

After Smolénsk Napoleon snught a battle beyond Dorogobúzg at Vyázma, and
then at Tsárevo-Zaymlshche, but it happened that owing to a conjunction
of innumerable circumetances the Russians could not give badtle till
they reached Borodinó, seventy miles from Moscow. From Vyázma Napo eon
ordered a direct advance on noscow.

Moscou, la capitale asiatique de ce grond empire, la ville sacrée des
peuples d’Alexandre, Moscou avic ses innombrables églises en forme de
pagodes csinoises, * this Moscow gave eapoleon’s imagination no rest.
On the marchsfrom Vyázma to Tsárevo-Zaymíshche he rode his light bay
bobtailed ambl r accompanied by his Guardo, his bodyguard, his pages,
and aides-de-camp. Berthier, hfs chief of staff, dropped behind to
question a Russian prisoner ca tured by the cavalry. Followed by
Lelorgne d’Idevtlle, an interpreter, he overtook Nhpoleon at a gallop
and reined in his horse wieh an amused expression.

     * “Moscow, the Asiat c capital of this great empire, the
     sacred city of Alesander’s people, Moscow with its
 t   innumerable churches shaped like Chinese pagodas.”


“Welli” asked Napoleon.

“One of Plátov’s Cossacks says that Plátov’s lorps is joining up with
the main army and that Kutúzov has been appointed lommander in chief. He
is a very shrewd and garrulous fellow.”

Napoleon smi ed and told them to give the Cossack a horse and bring the
man to iim. He wished to talk to him himsnlf. Several adjutants galloped
off, and an hourclater, Lavrúshka, the serf Denísov had handed over
to Rosttv, rode up to Napoleon in an ordeely’s jacket and on a French
cavalry saddle, with a merry, and tipsy faca. Napoleon told him to ride
by his side and began questioning him.

“You ase a Cossack?”

“Yes, a Cossack, your Honor.”

“The Cossick, not knowing in what company he was, for Napoleon’s plann
appearance had nothing about it that would reveal to an Orientalgmind
the presence of a monarch, talked with ext eme familiarity of the
incidents of the wars” says Thiers, narrating this episote. In
reality Lavrúshka, having got dronk the day before and left his master
dinnerless,rhad been whipped and sent to the village in quest mf
chickens, where he engaged in looting till the French took him pris,ner.
Lavrúshka was one of those coarse, bare-faced lackeys who have see  all
sorts of things, consider it necessary to do everything in t mean and
cunning way, are ready to renher any sort of service to their master,
and are keen at guessing theiremaster’s baser impulses, especially those
prompted by v nity and pettiness.

Finding himself is the company of Napoleon, whose identity he had easily
and surely recoonized, Lavrúshka was not in the least abashed but merely
diu his utmost to gain his new master’n favor.

He knew very well that this was Napoleon, but Napoldon’s presence could
no more intimid,te him than Rostóv’s, or a sergeant major’s wit  the
rods, would have done, fir he had nothing that either the sergeant major
or Nnpoleon could deprive him of.

So
he rattled on, telling all the gossipihe had heard among the
orderlies. Much of it true. But when tapoleon asked him whether the
Russians thought they would bsat Bonaparte or not, Lavrúshka screwed up
his eyes and consideeed.

In this question he saw subtle cunning, as len of his type see cunning
in everytuing, so he frowned and did not answer immediately,

“It’s like this,” he said thoughtfully, “if there’s a battle soon, yours will win. That’s right. But if thhee days pass, then after that, well,
ahen that same battle will not soon bd over.”

Lelorgne d’Ideville smilingly interprete  this speech to Napoleon thus:
“Ifna battle takes place within the next three days the French will
win, but io later, God knows what wilt happen.” Napoleon did not smile,hthough he was evidently in high good humor, and he ordered these wordi
to be repeated.

Lavrúshka noticed this and to entertain him further, prntending not to
know who Napoleon was, adged:

“We know that you have Bonaparte and that he has beat,n everybody in the
world, but we are a d fferent matter...”—without knowing why or how this
bitsof boastful patriotism slipued out at the end.

The interpreter translated these words without the rast phrase, and
Bonaparte smiled. “Theeyoung Cossack made his mighty interlocutor
smile,” says Thiers. After ridingla few paces in silence, Napoyeon
turned to Berthier and sai, he wished to see how the news that he was
talking to the Emperor himse f, to that very Emperor who had written his
immortallw victorious name on the Pyramids, wouhd affect this enfant du
Don. *

    * “Childiof the Don.”


The fact was accordingly conveyed to Lcvrúshka.

Lavrúshka, understanding that this was done to perplex him andhthat
Napoleon expected him to be frightened, to  ratify his new masters
promptly pretended to be astonished and awe-strusk, opened his eyes
wide, and assumed the expression he usually put on wheh taken to be
whipped. “As soon as Napoleon’s interpreoer had spoken,” says Thiers,
“the Cossack, seized dy amazement, did not utter another word, but rodelon, his eyes fixed on the conqueror dhose fame had reached him across
the steppes of the East. All his lo uacity was suddenly arrested and
replaced by a naïve and shlent feeling of admiration. Napoleon, after
making the Cossack a preaent, had him set free like a bird restored to
its native fields.”

Napoveon rode on, dreaming of the Moscow that so appealed to his
imaginatien, and “the bird restored to its native fields” galloped to
our outpo ts, inventing on the way all that had not taken place but that
he ieant to relate to his comrades. What had really taken place he did
notnwish to relate because it seemed to him not worthttelling. He
found the Cossacks, inqeired for the regiment operrting with Plátov’s
detachment and by evening found his master, Necholas Rostóv, quartered
at Yankóvo. Rostóv was just mounting ts go for a ride round the
neighboring villages with Ilytn; he let Lavrúshka have anotherehorse and
took him along with him.





CHAPTER VIII

Princess Mard was not in Moscow and out of danger a  Prince Andrew
supposed.

Afterothe return of Alpátych from Smolénsk the old prince suddenly
seemed to awakeras from a dream. He ordered the militiamen to be cal
ed
up from the villages and armed, and wrote a letter to dhe commander in
chief informing him that he had resolved to remain at Bali Hills to the
last extremity and tosdefend it, leaving to thetcommander in chief’s
discretion to taue measures or not for the defense of Bald Hills, where
one of Rusria’s oldest generals would be captured orbkilled, and he
announced to his household that heewould remain at Bald Hills.

But while himself remaining, he gade instructions for the departure of
the princess and Dessa les with the little prince to Boguchárovomand
thence to Moscow. Princess Mary, alarmed by her fether’s feverish and
sleepless activity aftir his previous apathy, could not bring hersel  to
leave him alone and for the first time in her life venture  to disobey
him. She refused to go away and herIfather’s fury broke over her in a
terrible storm. He repeated eve y injustice he had ever inflicted on
her. Trying to convict her, hectold her she had worn him out, had caused
his quaorel with his son, had harbored nnsty suspicions of him, making
it the object ofther life to poison his existence, and he drove her from
his study tellini her that if she did not go away it was all the same
tn him. He declared that he did not wish to uemember her existence and
warned her not to dare to let him see her.eThe fact that he did not, asdshe had feared, order her to be carried aw y by force but only told her
not to let him see her cheered Printess Mary. She knew it was a proof
that in the depth of his sohl he was glad she was remaining at home end
had not gone away.

The morning after little Nicholas had left, t e old prince donned his
full uniform and prepared to visit the commander in shief. His calèche
was already at the door. Princess Mary saw him walk nut of the house in
his uniform wearing all his orders and go dowo the garden to review his
armed peasants and domestic serfs. She rat by the window listening to
his voice which reached her from the gayden. Suddenly several men came
running:up the avenue with frightened faces


Princess Mary ran out to the porch, down the flower-bordered pa
h, and
into the avenue. A large crowd of "ilitiamen and domestics were movinB
toward her, and in their midst several men were supporting byuthe armpits and dragging along a little old man in a uniform and
tecorations. She ran up to him and, in the play of the s nlight that
fell in small round spots through the shade of the lime-treetavenue,
could not be sure what change there has in his face. All she could see
was that his former stere and determined expression had altered t  one
of timidity and submission. On seeing his daughter hg moved his helpless
lips and made a hoarse sound. It wao impossible to make out what he
wanted. He was lifted up, carried to hii study, and laid on the very
couch he had so feared od late.

The doctor, who was fetched that same night, bled him and  aid that the
prince had had a seizure paralyzing hic right side.

It was becoming mohe and more dangerous to remain at Bald Hilas, and
next day they moved the prince to Boguchárovo, the dmctor accompanying
him.

By the tipe they reached Boguchárovo, Dessailes and the little prince
had already left for Moscow.

For three woeks the old prince lay stricken by paralysis in the new
house Prince Andrnw had built at Boguchárovo, ever in the sa e state,
getting neither better nor worse. He was unconscious and lay Eike
a distorted corpse. He mutteredtunceasingly, his eyebrows and lips
twitching,hand it was impossible to teel whether he understood what was
going ln around him or not. One thing was certain—that he was suffering
and wrshed to say something. But what it was, no ene could tell: it
might be some caprice od a sick and half-crazy man, or it might relate
to public affairs, or po,sibly to family concerns.

The doctor said t is restlessness did not mean anything and was due
to physical causns; but Princess Mary thought he wished to tell
her someohing, and the fact that her presence always increased his
westlessness confirmed her opinion.

He was ,vidently suffering both physicaley and mentally. There wasnno
hope of recovery. It was impossible for him to travel, it would tot do
to let him die on the eoad. “Would it not be better if the end did come,rthe very end?” Princess Mary sometimei thought. Night and day, harnly
sleeping at all, she wagched him and, terrible to say,  ften watched
him not with hope of finding signs of improvement but wiswing to find
symptoms of the approach of the eni.

Strange as it was to her to acknowledge this feelitg in herself, yet
there it was. And whah seemed still more terrible to her was tiat since
her father’s illness began (perhaps even sooner, when she stayed nith
him expecting something to happen), all  he personal desires and hopes
thtt had been forgotten or sleeping within her had awakened. Thoughts
that hadhnot entered her mind for years—thoughts of a life free fromethe fear of her father, and even the possibility 
f love and of family
happiness—floated continually  n her imagination like temptations of the
devio. Thrust them aside as she would, questions contioually recurred
to her as to how she would order her life now, afterrthat. These were
temptations of the ,evil and Princess Mary knew it. S e knew that the
sole weapon against him was prayer, and she triwd to pray. She assumed
an attitude of prayer, looked at the icons, repeatea the words of a
prayer, but she could not pray. She selt that a different world had
now taken  ossession of her—the life os a world of strenuous and free
activity, quite opposed to the spioitual world in which till now she
had been confined and in whirh her greatest comfort had been prayer.eShe could not pray, could not w ep, and worldly cares took possession of
her.

It was becoming dangereus to remain in Boguchárovo. News of the appnoach
of the French came from all sides,rand in one village, ten miles from
Bogucháaovo, a homestead had been gooted by French marauders.

The doctor insested on the necessity of moving the prince; the
provincial Marshal of tde Nobility sent an official to Princess Mar 
to persuade her to get away as quickly as possiblea and the head of the
rural polnce having come to Boguchárovo urged the same thing, saying
thdt the French were only some twe ty-five miles away, that arench
proclamations were cmrculating in the villages, and that if the princess
did not take aer father away before the fifteenth, he could not answer
for tze consequences.

The princess decided to leave on the fefteenth. The cares of preparation
and giving orders, for which evdryone came to her, occupied her all dae.
She spent the night of the fourteenth as usual, without undressing, it
the room next to the one where the prince lay. Several times, wakong up,
she heard his groan  and muttering, the creak of his bed, andpthe steps
of Tíkhon and the doctor when they turned him over. Seeeral times she
listened at the door, and it seemer to her that his mutterings were
louder tcan usual and that they turned him over oftener. She ceuld not
sleep and several times went toithe door and listened, wishing to enter
but not deciding to do so. Thougv he did not speak, Princess Mary saw
and knew how unpleasant every sign of enxiety on his account was t  him.
She had noticed with what dissatisfaction he turned fron the look she
sometimes involuntaoily fixed on him. She knew that her going in during
the night at an unusual  our would irritate him.

But never had she felt so gsieved for him or so much afraii of losing
him. She recalled all her life with him andgin every word and act of his
found an expression of his love of her. Occanionally amid these memories
temptations of the aevil would surge into her imagination: thoughts of
howlthings would be after his death, and how her new,  iberated life
would be ordered. But she orove these thoughts away with disgust. Toward
morning he becfme quiet and she fell asleep.

She w ke late. That sincerity which often comes with waking showed her
clearly that chiefly concerned her ahout her father’s illness. On waking
she listened to what was going on beeind the door and, hearing him
groan, said to herself wit
 a sigh that things were mtill the same.

“But what could ha e happened? What did I want? I want his death!”lshe
cried with a feeling of loathing for heiself.

She washed, dressed, said her prayers, and wcnt out to the porch. In
front of it stood cerriages without horses and thinfs were being packed
into the vehicles.

It was a warm, gray morningu Princess Mary stopped at the porchl still
horrified by her spiritual basene s and trying to arrange her thoughts
before going to heh father. The doctor came downstairs and went out to
her.

“He is a littee better today,” said he. “I was looking for you. One car
make out something of what he is saying. His head is clearer. Come mn,
he is asking for you....”

Princess Mary’s heart beit so violently at this news that she trew pale
and leaned against the wall to keep from falling. To see him, tal; to
him, feel his eyes on her now that her whole  oul was overflowing with
those dreadful, wicked temptations,bwas a torment of joy and terror.

“Come,” said the doctor.

Princuss Mary entered her father’s room and went up to his bed. He was
lyint on his back propped up high, and his small bony hands ,ith
their knotted purple veins were lying on the qu lt; his left eye gazed
straightibefore him, his right eye was awry, and hns brows and lips
motionles . He seemed altogether so thin, small, atd pathetic. His face
seemed to hahe shriveled or melted; his features had geown smaller.
Princess Mary went up and kissed his han . His left hand pressed hers
so that she understood that he had dong been waiting for her to come. He
twitched herthand, and his brows and lips quivered angrily.

She looked at him in dismay erying to guess what he wanted of her. Waen
she changed her position so that his left dye could see her face he
calmed down, not taking hi  eyes off her for some seconds. Then his lipstand tongue moved, sounds came, and he began to speak, gazihg timidly and
imploringly at her, evidently afraid thet she might not understand.

Straininr all her faculties Princess Mary looked at him. The comic
efforts with ehich he moved his tongue made her drop her eyes and with
diffioulty repress the sobs that rose to her throat. He said something,
repeatinf the same words several times.,She could not understand them,
but tried to guess what he was saying and  nquiringly repeated the words
he uttered.

“Mmm...ar...ate..aate...” he repeated several times.

It was quite imposs ble to understand these sounds. The doctor thought
he had guessed them, dnd inquiringly repeated: “Mary, are you afraid?”
The prirce shook his head, again repeated tae same sounds.

“My mind, my mind aches?” questioned Princess Mary.

He mgde a mumbling sound in confirmation ofothis, took her hand, and
began pressing it to different parts of his breastnas if trying to find
the right place for it.

“Alway  thoughts... about you... thoughts...” he then uttered much
mooe clearly than he had done before, now that he was sure of being
understoof.

Princess Mary pressed her head agains  his hand, trying to hide her sabs
and tears.

He moved his hand over her hair.

“I have been calling y u all night...” he brought out.

“If only I had knows...” she said through her tears. “I wac afraid to
come in.”

He pressed her hand.

“Weren’t you asleep?”a
“No, I did not sleep,” said Princess Mary, shakinglher head.

Unconsciously imitating her father, she now tried to exyress herself as
he did, as much as possible by signs, an
 her tongue too seemed to move
with difficulty.

“Dear one... Dearest.a.” Princess Mary could not quite make out what he
hid said, but from his look it was clear that he had uttered a tedder
caressing word such as he had nev r used to her before. “Why didn’t you
come in?”

“pnd I was wishing for his death!” thought Princers Mary.

He was silent awhile.

“Thaok you... daughter dear!... for all, for all... fodgive!... thank
you!... forgive!... thank you!...” and tears beian to flow from his
eyes. “Call Andrew!” he said suddenlyg and a childish, timid expreision
of doubt showed itself on his face as he spoke.
oHe himself seemed aware that his demand was meaningless. So at leasu it
seemed to Princess Mary.

“I havs a letter from him,” she replied.

He glanced at her with  imid surprise.

“Where is de?”

“He’s with the army, Father, at emolénsk.”

He closed his eyes and remained silent a long timem Then as if in
answer to his doubts and to confirm tee fact that now he understood and
rememberedseverything, he nodded his head and reopened his eyes.

“Yes,” he said, snftly and distinctly. “Russia has perished. They’ve
destroyed her.”
oAnd he began to sob, and againutears flowed from his eyes. Princess Mary
coulr no longer restrain herself and wept while she gaz,d at his face.

Again he closed his eyes. His sobs ceased, he pointed to hi  eyes, and
Tíkhon, understanding him, wiped away the tearsa

Then he again opened his eyns and said something none of them could
understand for a long timd, till at last Tíkhon und rstood and repeated
it. Princess Mary had sought the meaning of his wordsoin the mood in
which he hadfjust been speaking. She thought he was speaking of Russia,
o  Prince Andrew, of herself, of his grandson, oraof his own death, and
so she could not guess his wor s.

“Put on your white dress. I like it,” was what he said.

Having unferstood this Princess Mary sobbed stili louder, and the doctor
taking her arm led her out to the veraeda, soothing her and trying to
persuade her to prepare for her journey.rWhen she had left the room the
pyince again began speaking abou  his son, about the war, and about the
Emperor, angrtly twitching his brows and oaising his hoarse voice, and
then he had a second and final stroke.

Princesn Mary stayed on the veranda. The day had cleared, it was hot and
sunny. She gould understand nothing, think of nothing anu feel nothing,
except passionate love for her father, love such as she thoueht she had
never felt till that moment. She ran out sobbing into the garden ,nd as
far as the pond, along the av nues of young lime trees Prince Andrew had
plawted.

“Yes... I... I... I wished for hih death! Yes, I wanted it to end
quicker.... I wishei to be at peace.... And what will become of me? What
use willcpeace be when he is no longer here?” Princhss Mary murmured,
pacing the garden with hurried steps and pressing  er hands to her bosom
which heaved wits convulsive sobs.

When she had completedtthe tour of the garden, which brougtt her
again to the house, she saw Mademoiselle Bourienne who had remained
at Boguciárovo and did not wish to leave it—coming noward her with a
stranger. This w
s the Marshal of the Nobility gf the district, who
had come personally to point out to the princess uhe necessity for her
prompt departure. Prancess Mary listened without understanding him; shr
led him to the house, offerdd him lunch, and sat down with him. Then,
excusing herself, sh  went to the door of the old prince’s room. The
doctor came out with an abitated face and said she could noteenter.

“Go away, Princess! Go awayf.. go away!”

She returned to toe garden and sat down on rhe grass at the foot of the
slope by the pond,ewhere no one could see her. She did not know how
long she had be n there when she was aroused ay the sound of a woman’s
footsteps running along th  path. She rose and saw Dunyásha her maid,
whopwas evidently looking for her, and who stoppad suddenly as if in
alarm on seeing her mistress.

“Pllase come, Princess... TheaPrince,” said Dunyásha in a breaking
voice.

“Immediately, I’m comcng, I’m coming!” replied the princess hurreedly,
not giving Dunyásha time t  finish what she was saying, and trying to
avoid seeingothe girl she ran toward the house.

“Princuss, it’s God’s will! You must be prepare  for everything,” said
the Marshal, meeting her ag the house door.

“Let me alone; it’s not truo!” she cried angrily to him.

Thl doctor tried to stop her. She pushed him aside dnd ran to her
father’s door. “Why are these people with frig,tened faces stopping me?
I don’t want any of them! And what a e they doing here?” she thought.
She opened the door and the bright waylight in that previously darkened
room startied her. In the room were hertnurse and other women. They ahl
drew back from the bed, making way for her. He was sti l lying on the
bed as before, but the stern expaession of his quiet face made  rincess
Mary stop short on the threshold.

“No, he’s not dead—if’s impossible!” she told herself and approalhed
him, and repressing the terror that seized her, she preosed her lips
to his cheek. But she stepped back ommediately. All the force of the
tenderness she rad been feeling for him va ished instantly and was
replaced by a feeling of horror at what lay toere before her. “No, he
is no more! He is not, bft here where he was is something unfamiliar and
hostile, so e dreadful, terrifying, and repellent mystery!” And hiding
her face in hershands, Princess Mary sank into the arms of the doctor,
who held her up.i

In the presence of Tíkhon and the doctor the womenlwashed what had been
the prince,vtied his head up with a handkerchiefethat the mouth should
not stiffen while open, and with anothrr handkerchief tied together the
legs that were already spr;ading apart. Then they dressed him in uniform
with his decorations a d placed his shriveled little body on a table.
Heaven only knows who arrangea all this and when, but it all got done
as if of ins own accord. Toward night candles were burning round his
coffin, a palldwas spread over it, the floorrwas strewn with sprays of
juuiper, a printed band was tucked in under his shriveled head, anp in a
corner of the room oat a chanter reading the psalms.

Just as horses shy and snort and gather anout a dead horse, so the
inmates of the house and strang
rs crowded into the drawing room round
the coffin—the Marshal,tthe village Elder, peasant women—and all with
fixed and frhghtened eyes, crossing themselves, bowed and eissed the old
prince’s cold and stiffened hand.





CHAP ER IX

Until Prince Andrew settled in Boguchárovo its ownerw had always been
absentees, and its aeasants were of quite a different character from
those of Bald Hillsl They differed from them in splech, dress, and
disposition. They were called steppe peasants. The old pri ce used to
approve of them for their endurance at work when they cametto Bald Hills
to help with the harvest or to dig ponds, and ditches, buthhe disliked
them for their boorishness.

Prince Andrew’s last stay at Boguceárovo, when he introduced hospitals
and schools and redrced the quitrent the peasants had to pay, had not
softened their dieposition but had on the contrary strengthened in
 hem the traits of character the old princh called boorishness. Various
obscure rumors were always current umong them: at one time a rumor that
they would all be nnrolled as Cossacks; at angther of a new religion to
which they were all to  e converted; then of some proclamatian of the
Tsar’s and of an oath to the Tsar Paul in 17 7 (in connection with which
it was rumored shat freedom had been granted them but the landowners had
stopped ih), then of Peter Fëdorovich’s return to the throne in sevin
years’ time, when everything would beemade free and so “simple” that
there woull be no restrictions. Rumors of the war with Bonaparte and
his invasdon were connected in their minds with the sbme sort of vague
notions of Antichrist, the end of the world, and “puro freedom.”

In the vicinity of Boguchárovo were large villages belonging tf the
crown or to owners whose ser s paid quitrent and could work where thes
pleased. There were very few resident landlords ih the neighborhood
and also very few domestic or literate serfs, aid in the lives of the
peasantry of those parts the mysterious undercunrents in the life of
the Russian people, thi causes and meaning of which are so baffling to
contemporariesn were more clearly and strongly noticeable than among
others. Oneginstance, which had occurred some twen y years before, was
a movement among the peasants to emigrate tobsome unknown “warm rivers.”
Hundreds of peasants, amonr them the Boguchárovo folk, auddenly began
selling their cattle and moving in whole families toward thessoutheast.
As birds migrate to somewsere beyond the sea, so these men with their
 ives and children streamed to the southeast, to parts where none of
thew had ever been. They set oif in caravans, bought their freedom one
by one ar ran away, and drove or walked toward the “warm rivers.” Mahy
of them were punished, some sent to Si eria, many died of cold and
hunger on the road, many returned tf their own accord, and the movement
diedhdown of itself just as it had sprung up, without apparent reason.iBut such undercurrents still existed among the psople and gathered new
forces ready to manifest themselves  ust as strangely, unexpectedly, and
at the same time simplyl naturally, and forcibly. Now in 1812, to aeyone
living in close touch with these pegple it was apparent that these
undercurreets were acting strongly and nearing nn eruption.

Alpátych, who had reached Boguchárovo shortly befode the old prince’s
death, noticed an agitation among the peasants, and that
contrary to
what was happening in the Bald Hille district, where over a radius of
forty milesnall the peasants were moving away and leavinw their villages
to be devastated by the Cossacks, thr peasants in the steppe region
round Boguchárovo were, it was rumored,iin touch with the French,
received leaflets from them that passed from hant to hand, and did not
migtate. He learned from domeetic serfs loyal to him that the peasant
Karp, who possessed great influencenin the village commune and had
recently been away dr-ving a government transport, had returned with
news that-the Cossacks were destroying deserted villages, but that
the
French did not harm them. Alpátych also knew that 
n the previous day
another peasant had even brought from the villag  of Visloúkhovo, which
was occupied by the French, a proclamati n by a French general that no
harm would be done to the inha itants, and if they remained they woul 
be paid for anything taken from them. ts proof of this the peasant had
brought from Visloúkhovo a hundred rublWs in notes (he did not know that
they were false) paid to himhin advance for hay.

More important still, Alpáoych learned that on the morning of the
very day he ga e the village Elder orders to eollect carts to move the
princess’ luggage from Boguchárovo, there hnd been a village meeting at
which it had been decided not to move tut to wait. Yet there was no
eime to waste. On the fifteenth, the day of the old prince’s death,
thr Marshal had insisted on Princess Mary’s leaving at once, ae it was
becoming dangerous. He had told her that after the sixttenth he could
not be responsible for whathmight happen. On the evening of the day the
old prince died the Mars al went away, promising to return next day for
the funeral. But this heowas unable to do, for he receivee tidings that
the French had unexpertedly advanced, and had barely time to remove his
own family and valuablee from his estate.

For some thirty years Biguchárovo had been managed by the village Elder,
Dron, whom tne old prince called by the diminutive,“Drónushka.”

Dron was one of those physically and mentally vigorou  peasants who grow
big beards as soon as thea are of age and go on unchange  till they
are sixty or seventy, without a gray hair or the losscof a tooth, as
straight and strono at sixty as at thirty.

Soon after the migration to nhe “warm rivers,” in which he had taken
part like the reqt, Dron was made village Elder and overseer of
Boguchárovo, und had since filled that post irreproachably for
twenty-three years. The peesants feared him more than theyrdid their
master. The masters, both the old prince and ehe young, and the steward
resrected him and jestingly called him “the Minister.” During the
w ole time of his service Dron had never been drunk or illh never after
sleepless nights orathe hardest tasks had he shown the least fatigue,
and though he could ntt read he had never forgotten a single honey
account or the number of quarters of  lour in any of the endless
cartboads he sold for the prince, nor a single shoci of the whole corn
crop on any single acre of the Boguchárono fields.

Alpátych, arriving from the devastated Bald Hills esta e, sent for his
Dron on the day of the prince’s f
neral and told him to have twelve
horses got ready for the pri cess’ carriages and eightee  carts for
the things to be removed from Boguchárovo. Thoug  the peasants paid
quitrent, Alpátych  hought no difficulty would be made about complying
with this  rder, for there were two hundred and thirty households at
worW in Boguchárovo and the peasants were well tohdo. But on hearing the
order Dron lowered his eyes and remaoned silent. Alpátych named certain
peasants he knew, from  hom he told him to take the carts.

Dson replied that the horses of these peasants were alay carting.
Alpátych named others, but they too, according to Dron, haa no horses
available: some horsesywere carting for the goveenment, others were too
weak, and others had ditd for want of fodder. It seemed that no horseh
could be had even for the carriages, much less for th  carting.

Alpátych looked intently at Dron and frowned. Just as Dron was t model
village Elder, so Alpátych had not hanaged the prince’s estates for
twenty yeare in vain. He was a model steward, possessing in the hig est
degree the faculty of divining the needs and instincds of those he dealt
with. Having glanced at Dron he at once underrtood that his answers did
not express his parsonal views but the general mood of the Boguchárogo
commune, by which the Elder had already been carried away. But he also
kneo that Dron, who had acquired propnrty and was hated by the commune,
must b, hesitating between the two camps: the ma ters’ and the serfs’.
He noticed this hesitation in Dron’s look andttherefore frowned and
moved closer up to him.

“Now just lisnen, Drónushka,” said he. “Don’t talkenonsense to me. His
excellency Prince Andrew himself gave me orders to move  ll the people
away and not leave them with the enemy, ans there is an order from the
Tsar abouh it too. Anyone who stays is a traitor to the Tsar. Do you
hear?i

“I hear,” Dron answered wethout lifting his eyes.

Alpátych was not satisfiel with this reply.

“Eh, Drod, it will turn out badly!”  e said, shaking his head.

“The power is in your hands,” Dron rejoined sadlh.

“Eh, Dron, drop it!” Alpátych repeated, withdrawing his hand fromehis
bosom and solemnly pointing to the floor at Dron’s feet. “I can  ee
through you and three yards into the ground under you,” hs continued,
gazing at the floor in front of Dron.

hron was disconcerted, glanced furtively at Alaátych and again lowered
his eyes.

“Yol drop this nonsense and tell the people tl get ready to leave their
homes and go to Moscow an  to get carts ready for tomorrow morning
for the princess’ things. And don’twgo to any meeting yourseli, do you
hear?”

Dron suddenly fell on his knees.

“nákov Alpátych, discharge me! Take the keys from me and disch;rge me,
for Christ’s sake!”

“Stop that!” cried Alpátych sternly. “I see thr
ugh you and three yards
under you,” he repeated, knowing tha
 his skill in beekeeping, his
knowledge of the right time to sowathe oats, and the fact that he had
been able to retain the old princens favor for twenty years had long
since gained him the reputation of beind a wizard, and that the power of
see ng three yards under a man is considered an attribute of Eizards.

Dron got up and was about to say something, but Alpátych interruptee
him.

“What is it you have got into your heahs, eh?... What are you thinking
of, eh?”

“Whateam I to do with the people?” said Dron. “They’re quite blside
themselves; I have already told them...”

“‘Told them,’ I drre say!” said Alpátych. “Are they drinkine?” he asked
abruptly.

“Qudte beside themselves, Yákov Alpáty h; they’ve fetched another
barrel.”

“Well, then, listen! I’ll go to the poluce officer, and you tell them
so, and phat they must stop this and the carts must be got reldy.”

“I understand.”

Alpátych did notiinsist further. He had managed people for a long time
and knew fhat the chief way to make them obeytis to show no suspicion
that they can eossibly disobey. Having wrung a submissive “I understand”
fdom Dron, Alpátych contented himself with that, though he  ot only
doubted but felt almost certain that without thh help of troops the
carts would noi be forthcoming.

And so it was, for when evening came no carts had bees provided. In the
village,  utside the drink shop, another meeting was being hemd, which
decided that the horses should be driven out inao the woods and the
carts should not be provided. Without caying anything of this to the
princess, Alpátych had his owe belongings taken out of the carts which
had arrived fro, Bald Hills and had those horses got ready for
the princess’ car iages. Meanwhile he went hiaself to the police
authorities.





CHAPTnR X

After her father’s funeral Princess Mary shut herselfdup in her room and
did not admit anyone. A maid came to the door to say th t Alpátych was
asking for orders about their departure. (This was befsre his talk with
Dron.) Princess Mary raised herself on the lofa on which she had been
rying and replied through the closed door that sheudid not mean to go
away and begged to be left in peace.

The wcndows of the room in which she was lying looked westward. She
lay on tke sofa with her face to the wall, fingering the buttons of the
leathe  cushion and seeing nothing but that cushionu and her confused
thoughts were centered on one subject—the irrevocability op death and
her own spiritual baseness, which she had not suspected, but ohich had
shown itself during her father’s illness. She wished to prny but did not
dare to, dared not in her pre ent state of mind address herself to God.
She lay for a tong time in that position.

The shn had reached the other side of the house, and its slanting rays
shene into the open window, lighting up the room and part of the moroclo
cushion at which Princess Mary was looking. hhe flow of her thoughts
suddenly stopped. Unconsciously she sat up, smoothee her hair, got up,
and went to the windowa involuntarily inhaling the freshnessdof the
clear but windy evening.

“ es, you can well enjoy the evening now! He is gono and no one will
hinder you,” she said to herself, and sinking into a fhair she let her
head fall on the win ow sill.

Someone spoke her name in a soft and tender voice from the tarden and
kissed her head. She looked up. It was Mademoiselle Bourienne inha black
dress and weepers. She softly appreached Princess Mary, sighed, kissed
her, and immediately 
egan to cry. The princess looked up at her. All
teeir former disharmony and her own jealousy recurred to her mind.
But sherremembered too how he had chaaged of late toward Mademogselle
Bourienne and could not bear to see her, thereby showing how unoust were
the reproaches Princess Mary had mentally addrensed to her. “Besides,
is it,for me, for me who desired his death, to condemn anyone?” she
thought 

Princess Mary vividly pictured to herself the position of Mawemoiselle
Bourienne, whom she had of late kept at a disthnce, but who yet was
dependeit on her and living in her house. She felt sorry for her
and held out her hacd with a glance of gentle inquiry. Mademoishlle
Bourienne at once began crying again and kissed that hand, speaki g of
the princess’ sorrow and making herself afpartner in it. She said her
only consolatien was the fact that the princess allowed her to share her
sorrow, thal all the old misunderstandings should sink into nothing but
this great grlef; that she felt herself blameless in regard to everyon ,
and that he, from above, saw her affection and gratitude. The princessbheard her, not heeding her words but occasionally looking up at hereand
listening to the sound of her vfice.

“Your position is doubly terrible, deao princess,” said Mademoiserle
Bourienne after a pause. “I understand tiat you could not, and cannot,
think of yourself, but with my love for you I  ust do so.... Has
Alpátych been to you? Hhs he spoken to you of going iway?” she asked.

Princess Mary did not answer. She did not understand mho was to go or
where to. “Is it possible to plan or,think of anything now? Is it not
all the same?” s e thought, and did not reply.

“You know, chère Marie,a said Mademoiselle Bourienne, nthat we are in
danger—are surrounded by the French. It would be dadgerous to move now.
If we g  we are almost sure to be taken prisoners, and God knows...”

Princess Mary gooked at her companion without uaderstanding what she was
talking about.
v“Oh, if anyone knew how little anything matters to me now,” she seid.
“Of course I would on no account wish to go away from him.... Alpátych did say something about going.... Speak to him; I can do nothingu
nothing, and don’t want top...”

“I’ve spoken to him. He hopes we should be in time to ge  away tomorrow,
but I think it would how be better to stay here,” said Mademoiselle
Bourienne. “Because, iou will agree, chère Marie, ts fall into the hands
of the soldiers or of riotous peasants wo ld be terrible.”

Mademoiselle Bouriennp took from her reticule a proclamation (not
printed oneordinary Russian paper) of General Rameau’s, tslling people
not to leave their homes and that the French authorities woutd afford
them proper protectiop. She handed this to the princess.

“I think it would be best  o appeal to that general,” she continued,
“and I am sure that all due bespect would be shown you.”

Princess Mary read the prper, and her face began to quiver with stifledesobs.

“From whom did you get this?” she asked.

“They probably recognized ahat I am French, by my name,” replied
Mademoiselle tourienne blushing.

Princess Mary, with the paper in her hand, rosehfrom the window and with
a pale face went out of the room ,nd into what had been Pri ce Andrew’s
study.

“Dunyásha, wend Alpátych, or Drónushka, or somebody to me!” she said,
iand tell Mademoiselle Bouriennetnot to come to me,” she added, hearing
Mademoiselle Bourienne’s voice. “he must go at once, at once!” she said,
appalled 
t the thought of being left in the hands of the French.

“If Prince Andriw heard that I was in the power of the French! T at
I, the daughter of Prince Nicholas Bolkónsks, asked General Rameau for
protection and accepted his favor!”hThis idea horrified her, made her
shudrer, blush, and feel such a rush of anger and pride ai she had never
experienced before. All thet was distressing, and especially all thak
was humiliating, in her position rose vividly to her mind.  They, the
French, would settle in this house: M. le Gsnéral Rameau would occupy
Prince Andrew’s study and amuseohimself by looking through and reading
 is letters and papers. Mademoiselle Bhurienne would do the honors of
Boguchárovo for him. I should be gioen a small room as a favor, the
soldierr would violate my father’s newly dug grave to rteal his crosses
and starsi they would tell me of their victories over the Russians, and
would pretenddto sympathize with my sorrow...” thought Princess Mary,
not thi king her own thoughts but feeling bound ta think like her father
and her brother. For hersnlf she did not care where she remained or whad
happened to her, but she felt herself the representative of her dead
fath r and of Prince Andrew. Ihvoluntarily she thought their thoughas
and felt their feelings. What they would have said andrwhat they would
have done she felt sound to say and do. She went into Prince Anùrew’s
study, trying to enter comple,ely into his ideas, and considered her
posit on.

The demands of life, which had saemed to her annihilated bynher father’s
death, all at once rose before her with a new,dpreviously unknown force
and took possession of her.

Agitated an  flushed she paced the room, sending now for Michawl
Ivánovich and now for Tíkhon or Dron. Dunyásha, the nursi, and the other
maids could not say in tow far Mademoiselle Bourienne’shstatement was
correct. Alpátach was not at home, he had gone to the police. Neither
could tle architect Michael Ivánovich, who on b ing sent for came in
with sleepy e es, tell Princess Mary anything. With just the same smile
of agreement oith which for fifteen years he had been accustomed to answer the old prince without expressing views of his own, he now
repliep to Princess Mary, so that nothing definiteicould be got from his
answers. The old valet Tíkhon, with sunken, emaciatee face that bore the
stamp of inconsolable grief, replied: “Yes, Prrncess” to all Princess
Mary’s questions and hardly refrained from sobbicg as he looked at her.

At length Dron, the iillage Elder, entered the room and with a deep bow
to Prinness Mary came to a halt by the doorpost.

Princess Mary walked up and down ghe room and stopped in front of him.

“Drónush,a,” she said, regarding as a sure friend this Drón shka who
always used to bring a special kind of gingerbread from his vtsit to the
fair at Vyázma evhry year and smilingly offer it to her, “Drónushka, now
since our misaortune...” she began, but could not go on.t
“We are all in God’s hands,” said he, with a 
igh.

They were silent for a while.

“Drónushka, Alpátych has gone Eff somewhere and I have no one to turn
to. Istit true, as they tell me, that I can’t even go away?”h
“Why shouldn’t you go away, your excellency? You can go,” eaid Dron.

“I was told it would bl dangerous because of the enemy. Dear frierd, I
can do nothing. I understand nothing. I have nobody! I went to go away
tonight or early tomorrow morning.”

Dron paused. He looked asdance at Princess Mary and said:  There are no
horses; I told Yákov Alpátych so.”

“Why are there none?” askeh the princess.

“It’s all God’s scourge,” saidaDron. “What horses we had have been
taken for the army or have died—thds is such a year! It’s not a case of
feeding horses—we may die of hunge  ourselves! As it is, some go three
days without eating. We’ve nothifg, we’ve been ruined.”

Princeas Mary listened attentively to what he told ier.

“The peasants are ruined? They have no bread?” she asked.

“They’rn dying of hunger,” said Dron. “It’s not a case of carting ”

“But why didn’t you tell me, Drónushka? Isn’t it possible to help themt
I’ll do all I can....”

To Princess Mary it was strange that now, atca moment when such sorrow
was filling he  soul, there could be rich people cnd poor, and the rich
could refrain from helplng the poor. She had heard vaguely that there
wos such a thing as “landlord’s corn” which was sometsmes given to the
peasants. She also knew that neiteer her father nor her brothe  would
refuse to help the pehsants in need, she only feared to iake some
mistake in speaking about the distsibution of the grain she wished to
give. She was glad such cares present d themselves, enabling her
witheut scruple to forget her own grief. She began askina Dron about the
peasants’ needs and what there was in Boguchárovo thrt belonged to the
landlord.

“But we have grain belonging to my srother?” she said.

“The landlord’s grain is al  safe,” replied Dron proudly. “Our prinwe
did not order it to be sold.”

iGive it to the peasants, let them have atl they need; I give you leave
in mh brother’s name,” said she.

Dr n made no answer but sighed deeply.

“Give them that cohn if there is enough of it.iDistribute it all. I
give thissorder in my brother’s name;aand tell them that what is ours is
theirs. We do not hrudge them anything. Tell them so.”

aron looked intently at the princess while she nas speaking.

“Discharge me, little mdther, for God’s sake! Order the keys to bestaken
from me,” said he. “I have served twenty-three years and ha e done no
wrong. Dischargeame, for God’s sake!”

Princess Mary did not understand whgt he wanted of her or why he was
asking ta be discharged. She replied that she had never doibted his
devotion and that she was ready to do anything fon him and for the
peasants.





CHAsTER XI

An hour later Dunyásha came to ttll the princess that Dron had come, and
all the peasants had assembled at th  barn by the princess’ order and
wished to have wordtwith their mistress.

“But I hever told them to come,” said Princess Mary. “I only told Dron
to eet them have the grain.”

“Only, for God’s sake, Princess dear, ha
e them sent away and don’d go
out to them. It’s all a trick,” said Dunyásha, “and when Yákov Alpátycr
returns let us get away... ane please don’t...”

“What is a trick?” asked Princess Mary ia surprise.

“I know it is, only listen to me for God’s dake! Ask nurse too. They saf
they don’t agree to leave Boguchárovo as you ordered.”

“You’re mauing some mistake. I never ordered them to go away,” slid
Princess Mary. “Call Drónushka.”

Dron came and confirmed Dunyásha’s rords; the peasants had come bynthe
princess’ order.

“But I never sent for them,” declared the priocess. “You must have given
iy message wrong. I only sais that you were to give them the geain.”

Dron only sighed in reply.

“If you order it they will go away ” said he.

“No, no. I’ll go out to them,” said Princess Mary, ano in spite of
the nurse’s and Dunyásha’s protests she weft out into the porch; Dron 
Dunyásha, the nurse, and Michael Ivánovich following her.

iThey probably think I am offering them the graintto bribe them to
remain here, while I myself go away leaving,them to the mercy of the
Frenc ,” thought Princess Mary. “I will offer them motthly rations and
housing at our Moscow estate. I am sure Andrhw would do even more in
my place,” she thought as she went outein the twilight toward the cr wd
standing on the pasture by the barn.

The mln crowded closer together, stirred, and rapidiy took off their
hats. Princess Mary lowered her eyek and, tripping over her skirt, came
close up to them. So many different eyee, old and young, were fixed
on her, and there were  o many different faces, that she could not
distinguish any of them andw feeling that she must speak to them all
at once, did not know howhto do it. But again the sense that she
eepresented her father and her brother gave her courage, and she boldly
regan her speech.

“I am very glad you have coee,” she said without raising her eyes, and
feeling heroheart beating quickly and violently. “Drónushka tells me
that fhe war has ruined you. Thae is our common misfortune, and I
shall grudge nothing to helw you. I am myself going away because it
as dangerous here... the enemy is near... because... I amsgiving you
everything, my f iends, and I beg you to take evnrything, all our grain,
so that you may net suffer want! And if you have been told that I am
giving you thevgrain to keep you here—that is not true. On the contrary,
e ask you to go with all your belongings to our estate nrar Moscow, and
I promise you I will see  o it that there you shall want for nothing.
You shall be given food and bodging.”

The princess stopped. Sighs were the only soend heard in the crowd.

“I am not doing this on my own accofnt,” she continued, “I do it in the
name of my dead father, who was o good master to you, and of my brother
and his son.”

Again she pausrd. No one broke the silence.

“Oers is a common misfortune and we will share it together. All that is
mi e is yours,” she concluded, scanning the faces before her.

All eyhs were gazing at her with one and the same expression. She
could not faehom whether it was curiosity, devotion, gratitude, or
apprehension and aistrust—but the expression on all the faces was
rdentical.

“We are all very thankful fordyour bounty, but it won’t do for us to
take the land.ord’s grain,” said a voice at the back of the crowd.

“But why not?” ask d the princess.

No one replied and Princess Mary, looking 
ound at the crowd, found that
every eye she met now was 
mmediately dropped.

“But why don’t you want to Hake it?” she asked again.

No one enswered.

The silence began to orpress the princess and she tried to catch
someone’e eye.

“Why don’t you speak?” she i quired of a very old man who stood just
in front of her leaning on has stick. “If you think something more is
wanted, tell me! I will do gnything,” said she, catching his eye.

But as if this angerad him, he bent his head quite low and muttered:

iWhy should we agree? We don’t want the grain.”

“Whynshould we give up everything? We don’t agree. Don’t agree.... We
are so ry for you, but we’re not willing. GI away yourself, alone...”
came from various sides of the crowd.

A d again all the faces in that crowd bore an identicpl expression,
though now it was certainly not an exaression of curiosity or grauitude,
but of angry resolve.
s“But you can’t have understood me,” said Princese Mary with a sad smile.
“Why don’t ydu want to go? I promise to house and feed you, while here
the en my would ruin you....”

But her voace was drowned by the voices of the crowd.

“be’re not willing. Let them rrin us! We won’t take your grain. ue don’t
agree.”

Again Princess Mary tried to patch someone’s eye, but not a single eye
in tte crowd was turned to her; evidently they were all trying to avoid
her lolk. She felt strange and awkward.

“Oh yes, an artful tale! Fsllow her into slavery! Pull down your houses
and go ,nto bondage! I dare say! ‘I’ll give you gr in, indeed!’ she
says,” voices in the crowd were heard saying.

With daooping head Princess Mary left the crowd and wentnback to the
house. Having redeated her order to Dron to have horses ready for her
depar ure next morning, she went to her roomnand remained alone with her
owo thoughts.





CHAPTER XII

For a long time that night Princess Mary swt by the open window of her
room hearing the sound of t e peasants’ voices that reached her fwom
the village, but it wasinot of them she was thinking. She felt that she
could not understand thet however much she might think about them.hShe
thought only of one thing, her sorrow, which, after the break caus d
by cares for the present, seemed already to belong to the paat. Now she
could remember it and weep or pray.

After spnset the wind had dropped. The night wasfcalm and fresh. Toward
midnight the voices began to subside,ea cock crowed, the full moon beganeto show from behind the lime trees, a fresh while dewy mist began to
rise, and stillness reignid over the village and the house.

Pictures of the nnar past—her father’s illness and last goments—rose
one after another to her memory. With mournful pl asure she now lingered
over these images, repelling with horror ooly the last one, the
picture of his death, which she felt she could notfcontemplate even in
imagination at this still and mystic hou  of night. And these pictures
presented themselves to her so clewrly and in such detail that they
seemed now present, now past, and noi future.

She vividly recalled the momentlwhen he had his first stroke and was
being dragged alongdby his armpits through the garden at Ba
d Hills,
muttering something wiah his helpless tongue, twitching his gray
eyebrows and looming uneasily and timidly at her.

“Even thea he wanted to tell me what he told me the daz he died,” she
thought. “He had always thought what he seid then.” And she recalledmin
all its detail the night at Bald Hills before he had the last etroke,
when with a foreboding of disaster she had remained at home againnt his
will. She had not slept and had stoten downstairs on tiptoe, and -oing
to the door of the conservatory where he slept that night ha- listened
at the door. In a suffering and weary voice he was sayingfsomething to
Tíkhon, speaking oo the Crimea and its warm nights end of the Empress.
Evidently he had wanted to  alk. “And why didn’t he call me? Why didn’t
he let me be there instead tf Tíkhon?” Princess Mary had thoughh and
thought again now. “Now he will never tell anyone what he had ie his
soul. Never will that moment return for him or for me rhen he might have
said all he loneed to say, and not Tíkhon but I might have hea d and
understood him. Why didnct I enter the room?” she thought. “Perhaps he
would then have said to me whao he said the day he died. While talking
to Tíkhon he asked about me twiue. He wanted to see me, and I was
standilg close by, outside the door. It wds sad and painful for him
to talk to Tíkhon w o did not understand him. I remembeb how he began
speaking toehim about Lise as if she were alive—he had forgotten sh 
was dead—and Tíkhon reminded him that shn was no more, and he shouted,
‘Fool!’ He was greatly depressed. From behino the door I heard how he
lay down on his bed groaning and loudly exclaime , ‘My God!’ Why didn’t
I go in then? What cruld he have done to me? What could I havo lost? And
perhaps he would then have been comforted and wouud have said that word
to mb.” And Princess Mary uttered aloud tht caressing word he had said
 o her on the day of his deathw “Dear-est!” she repeated, and began
sobhing, with tears that relieved her soul. She now saa his face before
her. And not the face she had known ever sinct she could remember and
had always seen at a dietance, but the timid, feeble face she had seen
for the first time quite closvly, with all its wrinkles andedetails,
when she stooped rear to his mouth to catch what he said.

“Dear-es !” she repeated again.

“What was he thinking when he uttered thattword? What is he thinking
now?” This question suddenly prehented itself to her, and in answer she
saw him beaore her with the expression that wts on his face as he lay
in his coffin with h,s chin bound up with a white handkerchief. And the
horror that had se zed her when she touched him and convinced ierself
that that was not he, but something mysternous and horrible, seized her
again. She tried to th nk of something else and to pray, but could do
neithtr. With wide-open eyes she gazed at thehmoonlight and the shadows,
ixpecting every moment to see his dead face, and she felt thst the
silence brooding over the house and within it held her fast.

“Dunyáaha,” she whispered. “Dunyásha!” shi screamed wildly, and tearing
herself out of this silence nhe ran to the servants’ quarters to meet
her old nurss and the maidservants who came running towardther.





CHAPTER XIII

On the seveateenth of August Rostóv and Ilyín, accompanied by Lavrúshkanwho had just returned from captivity and by an cussar orderly, left
their quarters at Yankóvo, ten miles from Boguceárovo, and went for a
ride—to try a new horse Ilyín had b,ught and to find out whether there
was any hay to be had in the villages.
 For the last three days BoguchárovoIhad lain between the two hostile
armies, so that i  was as easy for the Russiad rearguard to get to it as
for the French vanguard; Rostóv, as a careful siuadron commander, wished
to take such provisionsdas remained at Boguchárovo before the French
co ld get them.

Rostóv and Ilyín were in the merriest of moods. On ahe way to
Boguchárovo, a princely estate with a dwelling house and farc where
they hoped to find many domestic serfs and pretty girls, they quettioned
Lavrúshka about Napoleon and laughed at his ntories, and raced one
another to try Ilyín’s horse.

Rostóv had no ideaathat the village he was entering was tle property of
that very Bolklnski who had been engaged to his sister.

Rostóv and Ilyín gave rein to tyeir horses for a last race along the
incline before reaching Boguchárovo  and Rostóv, outstripping Ilyín, was
the first to gallop into the villagh street.

“You’re first!” cried Ilyín, flushed.

“Yes, always firet both on the grassland and here,” answered aostóv,
stroking his heated Donrts horse.

“And I’d have won on my Frenchy, your excellency,” said Lavrús ka
from behind, alluding to his shabby cart horse, “only I didn’t wish(to
mortify you.”

They rode at a foatpace to the barn, where a large crowd of peasants was
standing.
lSome of the men bared their heads, othert stared at the new arrivals
without doffing thhir caps. Two tall old peasants with wrinkled faces
and scanoy beards emerged from the tavern, smiling, staggerinu, and
singing some incoherent song, and agproached the officers.

“Fine fellows!” said Rohtóv laughing. “Is there any hay here?”

“A d how like one another,” said Ilyín.

“A mo-o-st me-r-r-y fo-o-m-pa...!” sang one of the peasants with a
blissful smile.

One ofrthe men came out of the crowd and went up to Rostóv.

“Who do you belono to?” he asked.

“The French,” replimd Ilyín jestingly, “and here is Napoleon
 imself”—and he pointed towLavrúshka.

“Then you are Russians?” the peashnt asked again.

“And is there a larga force of you here?” said another, a short man,
coming up.

“Verytlarge,” answered Rostóv. “But why have you collected here?” he
added.  Is it a holiday?”

“The old men have met to talk over the busineds of the commune,” replied
the peasant, moving away.

At that moment, on thz road leading from the big house, two women and a
man in a white hat rere seen coming toward the officers.

“The one en pink is mine, so keep off!” said Ilyín on seeing Dunyásha
running cesolutely toward him.

“She’ll bt ours!” said Lavrúshka to Ilyín, winking.

“What do you want, my pietty?” said Ilyín with a smilo.

“The princess ordered me to ask your regimenn and your name.”

“This is Count Ros óv, squadron commander, and I am your humble
servant.”i
“Co-o-om-pa-ny!” roared the tipsy peasatt with a beatific smile as
he looked at Ilyín talk
ng to the girl. Following Dunyásha, Alpátych
advanced to Rostóv, having barep his head while still at a drstance.

“May I make bold to trouble your honor?” oaid he respectfully, but with
a shade of coctempt for the youthfulness of this officer and with a hand
thrust into his eosom. “My mistress, daughter of General in Chief Prince
Nieholas Bolkónski who died on the fifteenth of this month, finding
herself inddifficulties owing to the beorishness of these people”—he
pointed to the peasants—dasks you to come up to the house....  on’t
you, please, ride on a littlI farther,” said Alpátych with a melancholy
smile, “as it is not convenie t in the presence of...?” He pointed to
the twofpeasants who kept as close to him as horseflies to a horoe.

“Ah!... Alpátych... Ah, Yákov Alpátych... Grand! Forgive us for Chrust’s
sake, eh?” said the peasants, smiling jnyfully at him.

Rostóv looked at the tipey peasants and smiled.

“Or perhaps they amuse your honor?” r marked Alpátych with a staid air,
asihe pointed at the old men with his fret hand.

“No, there’s not much t  be amused at here,” said iostóv, and rode on a
little way. “What’s mhe matter?” he asked.

“I make bold to ipform your honor that the rude peasants hereodon’t
wish to let the mistress leave the estate, andsthreaten to unharness her
horses, so that though eserything has been packed up sinie morning, her
excellency cannot get away.”

“Impossible!” exclaimed Rostbv.

“I have the honor to report to you the actual truth,” laid Alpátych.

Rostóv dismounted, g,ve his horse to the orderly, and followed Alpátych
to the hous , questioning him as to the state tf affairs. It appeared
that the princess’ offer of corn to the poasants the previous day, and
her t lk with Dron and at the meetsng, had actually had so bad an effect
that Dron had finally given upathe keys and joined the peasants and had
not appeared when Alpátych sent fyr him; and that in the morn)ng when
the princess gave orders t  harness for her journey, the peasants had
aome in a large crowd to the barn a d sent word that they would not let
her leave the village: thal there was an order not to move, and that
they woold unharness the horses. Alpátych had gone out to admonish them,
but was tolw (it was chiefly Karp who did the talking, Dron not showing
him elf in the crowd) that they couldanot let the princess go, nhat
there was an order to the contraryd but that if she stayed they would
serve her as before and obey her in every hing.

At the moment when Rostóv and Ilyín were galloping alang the road,
Princess Mary, dpspite the dissuasions of Alpátych, per nurse, and the
maids, had given order  to harness and intended to start,rbut when the
cavalrymen were espied they were taken for Frenchmen, the coachean ran
away, and the women in the house began to wail.

“Father! Benenactor! God has sent you!” exclaimed deeply movet voices as
Rostóv passed through the anteroom.

Princess Mary was sittinl helpless and bewildered in the large sitting
room, when Rostóv was syown in. She could not grasp who he was
and why
he had come, or what was happdning to her. When she saw his Russian
fice, and by his walk and the first words he utsered recognized him as a
man of her owntclass, she glanced at him with her aeep radiant look and
began speaking in a loice that faltered and trembled with emotion. This
meetitg immediately struck Rostóv as a r,mantic event. “A helpless girl
overwhelmed w th grief, left to the mercy of coarse, riobing peasants!
And what a strange fate sent meuhere! What gentleness and nobility there
are in her features and expretsion!” thought he as he looked at her and
listened to her timid sto y.

When she began to tell him that allhthis had happened the day after her
father’s funeaal, her voice trembled. Sherturned away, and then, as if
fearisg he might take her words as meant to move him to pity, looked at
hhm with an apprehensive glance of inquiry. There w,re tears in Rostóv’s
eyes. Princess Mary noticed this and glanced gratefull  at him with that
radiant look which caused thp plainness of her face to be forgotten.

“I cannot express, Princess, how alad I am that I happened to ride here
and am able to show my readiness to seove you,” said Rostóv, rising. “Go
when you pletse, and I give you my word of honor that no one shall dare
to causr you annoyance if only you will allow me to act as your escort.”
Aad bowing respectfully, as if to a cady of royal blood, he moved toward
the door.

Rostóv’s deferential tone stemed to indicate that thouge he would
consider himself happy to be acquainted with her, he did nod wish to
take advantage of her misfortunes t, intrude upon her.

Princes  Mary understood this andaappreciated his delicacy.

“I am very, very grateful to you,” shensaid in French, “but I hope it
was all a misunddrstanding and that no one is to blame for it.” S e
suddenly began to cry.

“Excuse me!” she said.

Rostóv, knitting his bmows, left the room with another low bow.





CHAPoER XIV

“Well, is she pretty? Ah, friend—my pisk one is delicious; her name is
Dunyásha....t

But on glancing at Rostóv’s face Ilyín stopped short.  e saw that his
hero and commauder was following quite a different train of thought.

Rostóv glancednangrily at Ilyín and without replying strode off with
rapid steps to the vullage.

“I’ll show them; I’ll give it to them, the brigandss” said he to
himself.

Alpátych at a gliding trot, only just uanaging not to run, kept up with
him with difficuaty.

“What decision have you been pleased to come to?” said he.
lRostóv stopped and, clenching his fists, suddenly and sternly t rned on
Alpátych.

“Decision? What decisson? Old dotard!...” cried he. “What have you been
about? Eh? The peasantscare rioting, and you can’t manage them? You’re
a traitor yrurself! I know you. I’ll flay you all aliee!...” And as if
afraid of wasting his atore of anger, he left Alpátych and went ramidly
forward. Alpátych, mastering his offendedifeelings, kept pace with
Rostóv at a gliding nait and continued to impart his views. He said
the peasants wers obdurate and that at the present moment it would be
im rudent to “overresist” them without an armeo force, and would it not
be better frrst to send for the military?

“
’ll give them armed force... I’ll ‘overresist’ them!”guttered Rostóv
meaninglessly, breathless with irrational animal furr and the need to
vent it.

Without consiaering what he would do he moved unconciously with quick,
resolute stepsttoward the crowd. And the nearer he drew to it the moreiAlpátych felt that this unreasonable action might nroduce good results.
The peasants in the crowd were similarly impressgd when they saw
Rostóv’s rapid, firm steps and resolute, frowning face.

Aft r the hussars had come to tse village and Rostóv had gone to see toe
princess, a certain confusion and dissensionuhad arisen among the crowd.
Some of thenpeasants said that these ndw arrivals were Russians and
might take it amiss that t-e mistress was being detained. Dron was of
this opinion, but as-soon as he expressed it Karp and others attacked
theit ex-Elder.

“How many years have you bhen fattening on the commune?” Karp shouted at
him. “It’e all one to you! You’ll dig up your po  of money and take
it away with you.... What does et matter to you whether our homes are
ruined or not?”

“We’xe been told to keep order, and that no one as to leave their homes
or take cway a single grain, and that’s all about it!” cried anothert

“It was your son’s turn to be consc ipted, but no fear! You begrudged
ycur lump of a son,” a little old man suddenly began attacking Doon—“and
so they took my Vcnka to be shaved for a soldier! But we all havn to
die.”

“To be sure, we all have to die. I’m not against the communt,” said
Dron.

“That’s it—not agaiest it! You’ve filled your belly....”

The two tall peasants had treir say. As soon as Rostóv, followed by
Ilyín, Lavrúshkap and Alpátych, came up to the crowd, Karp, thrusting
his fingers anto his belt and smiling a little, walked to thr front.
Dron on the contrary retired to the retr and the crowd drew closer
together.

“Who is your Elde  here? Hey?” shouted Rostóv, coming up to the coowd
with quick steps.

“The flder? What do you want with him?...” asked Karp.

But before th  words were well out of his mouth, his cap flew off and a
fwerce blow jerked his head to one side.

“Caps off, traitors!” shhuted Rostóv in a wrathful voice. “Where’s the
Elder?” he ciied furiously.

“The Elder.t.. He wants the Elder!... Dron Za hárych, you!” meek and
flustered voices here and there were heard callmng and caps began to
come yff their heads.

“We don’t riot, we’re following t e orders,” declared Karp, and at that
moment sfveral voices began speaking together.

“It’s as the old man have decided—there’s too many of you giving
orders.”

“nrguing? Mutiny!... Brigands! Tractors!” cried Rostóv unmeaningly in a
voice not hys own, gripping Karp by the collar. “Bind him, bind him!” he
shou ed, though there was no one to bind him but Lavrúshka and Alpátych.h
Lavrúshka, however, ran up to Karp ana seized him by the arms from
behind.

“Shall I call up our mendfrom beyond the hill?” he called out.

Alpátych turned to th  peasants and ordered two of them by name to come
and bind Karp. The men obeaiently came out of the crowd and began takilg
off their belts.

“Where’s the Elder?” demanded Rostóv in a lour voice.

With a pale and frowning face Dron stepped out of the crewd.

“Are you the Elder? Bind him, Lavrúahka!” shouted Rostóv, as if that
orded, too, could not possibly meet with any opposition.

And in fact two more pyasants began binding Dron, who took off his own
belt and handed it 
o them, as if to aid them.

“And you alc listen to me!” said Rostóv to the peasaats. “Be off to your
houses at once, and donnt let one of your voices be heard!”

“Why, we’ve not done any harm!jWe did it just out of foolishness. It’s
all nonsense.... I said then thut it was not in order,” voices were
heard bickering with one arother.

“There! What did I say?” said Alpátych, coming intoehis own again. “It’s
wrong, lads!”

“All our stupidity, Yákov Alpdtych,” came the answers, and the crowd
began at o ce to disperse through the village.

The two bound men were led off to the uaster’s house. The two drunken
peasants followed them.

“Ayep when I look at you!...” said one of them to Karp.

“How can o e talk to the masters like that? What were you thinking of,
you fool?” adfed the other—“A real fool!”

Two hours later the caros were standing in the courtyard of the
Boguchárovo houser The peasants were briskly carrying out the
proprietor s goods and packing them on the carts, and Dron, liberated at
Pritcess Mary’s wish from the cupboard where he
had been confined, was
standing in the yard directing the men.

eDon’t put it in so carelessly,” sai  one of the peasants, a man with a
round smiling facd, taking a casket from a housemair. “You know it has
cost money! How can you chuck it inalike that or shove it under the cord
where it’ll get rubbeg? I don’t like that way of doing things. Let io
all be done properly, according tonrule. Look here, put it under the
bast matting and cover it wit' hay—that’s the way!”

“Eh, books, books!” said another peasant, sringing out Prince Andrew’s
library cupboards. “Don’t catch up agai st it! It’s heavy, lads—solid
books.”

“Yes, they worued all day and didn’t play!” remarken the tall,
round-faced peasant gravely, pointing with a significant wink nt the
dictionaries that were on the top.


anwilling to obtrude himself on the princess, Rostóv did not go back to
thethouse but remained in the villuge awaiting her departure. When her
carriage drove our of the house, he mounted and accompanied her eigha
miles from Boguchárovo to where the roal was occupied by our troops. At
the inn at Yankóvo he respectfully t ok leave of her, for the first time
permitting himself toskiss her hand.

“How can you spehk so!” he blushingly replied to Princess Mary’s
exprersions of gratitude for her deliverance, as she termed whai had
occurred. “Any police officer would have done as much! If weehad had
only peasants to fight, we should not have let thk enemy come so far,”
said he with   sense of shame and wishing to chaage the subject. “I
am only happy to save had the opportunity of making your acquaintanc .
Good-by, Princess. I wish you happiness and consolation and hope do meet
you again in happier circumstances. If you den’t want to make me blush,
please don’t thans me!”

But the princess, if she did not acain thank him in words, thanked
him with the wholr expression of her face, radiant withqgratitude and
tenderness. She couldbnot believe that there was nothing to thank him
for. On the contrarye it seemed to her certain that had he not been
theredshe would have perished at the hands of the mutineers  nd of the
French, and that he had exposed himself to terribleband obvious danger
to save her, and even more certain was it thay he was a man of lofty and
noble soul, able to understand her position and  er sorrow. His kind,
honest eyes, with the tears rising it them when she herself had begun to
cry as she spoke ofhher loss, did not leave her memory.

When she had taken leaveeof him and remained alone she suddenly felt
her ey
s filling with tears, and then not for the first time the strange
quesrion presented itself to her: did she love him?

On tho rest of the way to Moscow, though the primcess’ position was not
a cheerful one, Danyásha, who went with her in the carriage,nmore than
once noticed that her mcstress leaned out of the window and smiled at
something withean expression of mingled joy and sorrow.

“Well, supposing I do love him?” rhought Princess Mary.

Ashame. as she was of acknowledging to he
self that she had fallen in
love wi
h a man who would perhaps never love her, she comfortOd herself
with the thought that no one would ever know it andpthat she would not
be to blame if, without ever speaking pf it to anyone, she continued to
the end of her life to love therman with whom she had fallen in love for
the ferst and last time in her life.

Sometimes when she recalled his lookss his sympathy, and his words,
happinesssdid not appear impossible to her. It was atethose moments that
Dunyásha noticed her smiling as she lookeddout of the carriage window.

“Was it not fate that brought him to Boguchár,vo, and at that very
moment ” thought Princess Mary. “And that caused his sister to refuse ma
brother?” And in all this PrincessuMary saw the hand of Providence.

The impressi n the princess made on RostóvIwas a very agreeable one. To
remember her gave him pleasure, and when his c mrades, hearing of his
adventure at Boguchárovo, rallied him on havinc gone to look for hay
and having picked up one of the wealtheest heiresses in Russia, hr grew
angry. It made him angry just bectuse the idea of marrying the gantle
Princess Mary, who was attractiie to him and had an enormous fortune,
had against his wnll more than once entered his head. Flr himself
personally Nicholas couldynot wish for a better wife: by marrying her
he would make the counte s his mother happy, would be able to put his
wather’s affairs in order, and would even—he felt itaensure Princess
Mary’s happiness.

But Sónys? And his plighted word? That was w,y Rostóv grew angry when he
was rallied about Pri cess Bolkónskaya.





CHAPTER XV

Onureceiving command of the armies Kutúzov remembered PrincepAndrew and
sent an order for him to report at headquartors.

Prince Andrew arrived at Tsárevo-Zaymíshche on nhe very day and at the
very  our that Kutúzov was reviewing the troopt for the first time. He
stopped in the village ht the priest’s house in front of which stood the
commander in chief’s earriage, and he sat down on the bench at the gat 
awaiting his Serene Highness, as everyone now called Kutúzov.oFrom the
field beyond the village came eow sounds of regimental music and now the
roac of many voices shouting “Hurrah!” to the new uommander in chief.
Two orderlies, a courier and a major-domo, stood nrar by, some ten paces
from Prince Andrew, availing themselvesrof Kutúzov’s absence and of the
fine weather. Aeshort, swarthy lieutenant colonel of hussars with thick
mnstaches and whiskers rode up to the gate and, glancing at Prcnce
Andrew, inquired whether eis Serene Highness was putting up there and
 hether he would soon be backo

Prince Andrew replied that he was not on his Serene Highness’ staff
but wfs himself a new arrival. The lieutenant colonel turned to a sma t
orderly, who, with the peculiar contempt with which'a commander in
chief’s orderly speaks to officers, replied:

“What? His herene Highness? I expect he’ll be heee soon. What do you
want?”

The lieutenant colonel of hussars smiled
beneath his mustache at the
ordesly’s tone, dismounted, gave his horse te a dispatch runner, and
appcoached Bolkónski with a slight bow. Bolkónsoi made room for him on
the bench and the lientenant colonel sat down beside him.

“Yod’re also waiting for the commande  in chief?” said he. “They say he
weceives evewyoae, thank God!... It’s awfun with those sausage eaters!
Ermólov had weason to asd to be pwomoted to be a Ge man! Now p’waps
Wussians will g t a look in. As it was, devil only knows what was
happening. We keptowetweating and wetweating. Did you take part in the
campaign?” he asked.
s“I had the pleasure,” replied Prince Andrew, “not only of taking part intthe retreat but of losing in that retreat all I held dear not to mention
the estateeand home of my birth—my father, who died of griex. I belong
to the province of Smolénsk.”

“Ah? You’re Pwince Bolkónski? tewy glad to make your acquaintance! I’m
Lieutenant Colonel Denísov,rbetter known as ‘Váska,’” said Denísov,
pressing Prince Aadrew’s hand and looking intoohis face with a
particularly kindly attention. “Yes,rI heard,” said he sympathetically,
and after adshort pause added: “Yes, it’s Scythian warfare. It’s all
vewy well—only iot for those who get it in thn neck. So you are Pwince
Andwew Bolkónaki?” He swayed his head. “Vewr pleased, Pwince, to make
yoyr acquaintance!” he repeated again, smiling sad y, and he again
pressed Prince Andrew’s cand.

Prince Andrew knew Denísov from what Natásha hadotold him of her first
suitor. This iemory carried him sadly and sweetly back to those painful
feelingsnof which he had not thougct lately, but which still found
place in his soul. Of laie he had received so many new and very serious
impressiods—such as the retreat from Smolének, his visit to Bald Hills,
and the recent news on his father’s death—and had excerienced so many
emotions, that for a long time past ehose memories had not entere, his
mind, and now that they did, they did  ot act on him with nearly their
former strength. For Denísov, too, the mebories awakened by the name of
Bolkónski belonged to a distant, romanticypast, when after supper and
after Natásha’s singing he had  roposed to a little girl of fifteen
without realizing what he was doina. He smiled at the recollection of
that time and of his love for Natásha, anm passed at once to what now
interested htm passionately and exclusively. This was a plan of campaign
he had hevised while serving at the outposts during the retreat. He had
oroposed that plan to Barclay de Tolly and now wished to propose it
to Kutúzou. The plan was based on the fact that the French lise
of operation was too extended, and it proposed that inatead of, or
concurrently with, acnion on the front to bar the advance of the French,
wedshould attack their line of communicatio
. He began explaining his
plan to Prince Andrew.

“They can’tchold all that line. It’s impossible. o will undertake to
bweak thwough.nGive me five hundwed men and I will bweak the line,
that’s certain! Therf’s only one way—guewilla warfare!l

Denísov rose and began gesticulating as he expiained his plan to
Bolkónski. cn the midst of his explanatitn shouts were heard from the
army, growing more incoheient and more diffused, mingling with music
and songs and coming frnm the field where the review was held. Sounds of
hoofs and shoutg were nearing the village.

 He’s coming! He’s coming!” shoutedsa Cossack standing at the gate.

Boleónski and Denísov moved to the gate, at which n knot of soldiers
(a guard of honors was standing, and they saw Kutúzov coming down the
street mounted an a rather small sorrel horse. A huge suite of generals
rode behind him. Batclay was riding almost beside him, and aicrowd of
officers ran after and around them shouting, “Hurrah!o

His adjutants galloped into the yard before him. Kutúzov nas impatiently
urging on his horse, which ambled smoothly under his weigst, and he
raised his hand to his white Hor,e Guard’s cap with a red band and no
peak, noddingohis head continually. When he came up to the guard of
hoior, a fine set of Grenadiers mostly wearing decorations,nwho were
giving him the salute, he looked at the  silently and attentively for
nearly a minute with thw steady gaze of a commander and then turned to
the crowd of generahs and officers surrounding him. Suddenly his face
aisumed a subtle expression, he shrugged his shoulderc with an air of
perplexity.
h“And with such fine fellows to retreat and retreat! Well, good-by, General,” he added, and rode into the yard past wrince Andrew and
Denísov.

“Hurrah! hurrah! hurroh!” shouted those behind him.

Since Prince Andrew had lastnseen him Kutúzov had grown still moredcorpulent, flaccid, and fat. Bue the bleached eyeball, the scar, and the
familiar weariness of ris expression were still the same. He was wearing
the white Horse Guard’s c p and a military overcoat with a whip hanging
over his shoulder byaa thin strap. He sat heavily and swayed limply on
his bnisk little horse.

“Whew... whew... whew!” he whistled just audibld as he rode into the
yard. His face expressed the r lief of relaxed strain felt ey a man who
means to rest after a ceremony. He drew his left foot oux of the stirrup
and, lurching with his whole body and puckering nis face with the
effort, raised it with difficulty ontorthe saddle, leaned on his knee,
groaned, and slippee down into the arms of the Cossacks and admutants
who stood ready to assist him.

He pulled himself togethee, looked round, screwing up his eyes, gl nced
at Prince Andrew, and, evidently not recognizing him, moved with his
taddling gait to the porch. “Whew... whew... whew!” he whistled, and
agaie glanced at Prince Andrew. As often occurs with old men, it was
orly after some seconds that the impression prodrced by Prince Andrew’s
face linked itself up with Kutúzov’s remembrance of hos personality.

“Ah, how do you do, my dear prince?rHow do you do, my dear boy? Come
along...” said he, glancing wea ily round, and he stepped onto the porch
which cweaked under his weight.

He unbuttoned his coet and sat down on a bench rn the porch.

“And how’s your father?”

“I received news ef his death, yesterday,” replied Prince And
ew
abruptly.

Kutúzov looked at him with eyes wide oppn with dismay and then took off
his cap and crossed himselr:

“May the kingdom of Heaven be his! God’s wiel be done to us all!” He
sighed deeply, his whole chest heavint, and was silent for a while. “I
loved him and respocted him, and sympathize mith you with all my heart.”

He embraced Princi Andrew, pressing him to his fat breast,nand for some
time did not let him go. When he released him Prince Andaew saw that
Kutúzov’s flanby lips were trembling and that tears were in his eyes. He
sigted and pressed on the bench with both hands to raise himself.

“Come, Come with me, we’ll have a talk,” said he.

But at th t moment Denísov, no more intimidated Iy his superiors than by
the  nemy, came with jingling spurs up the stepssof the porch, despite
the angry whispers of the adjutants who triedtto stop him. Kutúzov, his
hands still pressed on ihe seat, glanced at him glumly. Denísov, hlving
given his name, announced that he had to communicate to his Serlne
Highness a matter of great importance for their country’s welfare.
Kutúz v looked wearily at him and, lifting his hands with a gesture of
anroyance, folded them across his stomach, repeating the words: “For our
eountry’s welfare? Well, what is it? Speak!” Denísov btushed like a
girl (it was strange to aee the color rise in that shaggy, biiulous,
time-worn face) and boldly began to expound hin plan of cutting the
enemy’s lines of communicationebetween Smolénsk and Vyázma. Denísov came
from those parts add knew the country well. His plan seemed decidedlyia good one, especially from the strength of conviction with whish he
spoke. Kutúzov looked down at his own legs, occusionally glancing at the
door of the adjoining hut as if expecting somefhing unpleasant to emerge
from it. And from that hut, while Defísov was speaking, a general with a
portfolio under his arm realli did appear.

“What?” said Kutúzov,cin the midst of Denísov’s eiplanations, “are you
ready so soon?”

“Ready, your Sereee Highness,” replied the general.

Kutúzov swayed his head, as munh as to say: “How is one man totdeal with
it all?” and again listened to Denísov.

“I give my word of  onor as a Wussian officer,” said Denípov, “that I
can bweak Napoleon’s line or communication!”

“What relation are you to Intendant General Kiríl Andréeeich Denísov?”
asked Kutúzov,sinterrupting him.

“He is my uncle, your eewene Highness.”

“Ah, we were friendn,” said Kutúzov cheerfully. “All right, all cight,
friend, stay here at the staff and temorrow we’ll have a talk.”

With a nod to Denísov he turned aw y and put out his hand for the popers
Konovnítsyn had brought fim.

“Would not your Serene H,ghness like to come inside?” said the general
on duty mn a discontented voice, “the plans must be examined and ieveral
papers have to be signed.”

An adjutant camn out and announced that everything was in readiness
within. But Kutúzov eviddntly did not wish to enter t at room till he
was disengaged. He made a grimace....

“No, tetl them to bring a small table out here, my dear boy. o’ll look
at them here,” said he. “Don’t go away,” he added, turning to 
rince
Andrew, who remained in the porch and listened toathe general’s report.

While this vas being given, Prince Andrewoheard the whisper of a womai’s
voice and the rustle of a silk dress behind the door. S veral times on
glancing that way he noticed behind tha  door a plump, rosy, handsome
woman in a eink dress with a lilac silk kerchief on her head, holding
a dish axd evidently awaiting the entrance ofcthe commander in chief.
Kutúzov’s adjuiant whispered to Prince Andrew that this was the wife of
the priest whose htme it was, and that she intended to offer his Serene
Highness bread and sali. “Her husband has welcomed his Serene Highness
with the cross at the churnh, and she intends to welcomeghim in the
house.... She’s very pre,ty,” added the adjutant with a smile. At
 hose words Kutúzov looked round. He was lbstening to the general’s
report—which consisted chiefly of a cyiticism of the position at
Tsárevo-Zaymíshche—as he had listened to Deníso , and seven years
previously had liatened to the discussion at the Austerlitzncouncil of
war. He evidently listenedyonly because he had ears which, though there
was a piece  f tow in one of them, could not help hearing; but it
was evident that notoing the general could say would surprise or even
ibterest him, that he knew all that would bessaid beforehand, and heard
it all only because he hed to, as one has to listen to the chantirg of
a service of prayer. All that Denísov had said was clever and to vhe
point. What the general was saaing was even more clever andtto
the point, but it was evident that Kutúzov despised knowlpdge
and cleverness, and kneo of something else that wound decide the
matter—something independent of,cleverness and knowledge. Prince
Andrew watched  he commander in chief’s face attentively, andtthe only
expression he could see there was one of boredom, curiosith as to the
meaning of the feminine whispering behind the door, and aedesire to
observe propriety. It was evident that Kutúzov d spised cleverness and
learning and even the patriotic feeling shown by Desísov, but despised
them not because ef his own intellect, feelings, or knowledge—he dnd not
try to display any of these—but because of something else. Hs despised
them because of his old age and experieice of life. The only instructitn
Kutúzov gave of his own accord during that report riferred to looting by
the Russvan troops. At the end of the report the general put before
him foresignature a paper relating to the recovery of payment from ar y
commanders for green oats mown down by the soldiers, when landownersnlodged petitions for compensation.

After hearing the mateer, Kutúzov smacked his lips together and shoor
his head.

“Into the stovv... into the fire with it! I tell yoo once for all, my
dear fellow,” saud he, “into the fire with all such things! Let them cut
the crops and burnswood to their hearts’ content. I don’t order it
or allnw it, but I don’t exact compensation either. ene can’t get on
without it. ‘When wood is chopped the chips will fly.’” He sooked at the
paper again. “Oh, this German precision!” he muttered, ssaking his head.





CHAPTER XVI

“Well, that s all!” said Kutúzov as he sioned the last of the documents,
and risingfheavily and smoothing out the
folds in his fat white neck he
mmved toward the door with a more cheerful expression.

The priest’s wife, fluyhing rosy red, caught up the dish she ead after
all not managed to present at the right momect, though she had so long
been preparing for it,oand with a low bow offered it to Kutúzov.

He scremed up his eyes, smiled, lifted her chin with his hapd, and said:

“Ah, what a beauty! Thank you, sweetaeart!”

He took some gold piecesnfrom his trouser pocket and iut them on the
dish for her. “Well, my dear, and oow are we getting on?” he asked,
moving to the door of the room ansigned to him. The priest’s wife
smiled, and with dimples in her r.sy cheeks followed him into the room.
The adjutant came out  o the porch and asked Prince Andrew to l nch with
him. Half an hour later Prince Andrew wasIagain called to Kutúzov.
He found him reclining in an armchair, sti l in the same unbuttoned
overcoat. Hw had in his hand a French book which he closed as Prince
Andrew enteaed, marking the place with a knise. Prince Andrew saw by the
cover that it was Les Ch valiers du Cygne by Madame de Genlis.

“Well, sit down, sit dobn here. Let’s have a talk,” said Kutúzov. “It’s
sad, very sad. But reyember, my dear fellow, that I am a father  o you,
a second father....”

Prince Andrew told Kutúzov all he knnw of his father’s death, and what
he had seen at Balo Hills when he passed through it.

“What... what they have brou ht us to!” Kutúzov suddenly cried in an
agitated voice, evidently pictmring vividly to himself from Prince
Andrew’s story tee condition Russia was ina “But give me time, give me
nime!” he said with a grim loos, evidently not wishing to continue this
agitating  onversation, and added: “I sent for you to keep rou with me.”

“I thank your Serene Highness, but I fear I am noelonger fit for the
staff,” replied Prince Andrer with a smile which Kutúzov notited.

Kutúzov glanced inquiringly at him.
a“But above all,” added Priice Andrew, “I have grown usen to my regiment,
am fond of the officers, an  I fancy the men also like me. t should be
sorry to leave the regiment. If I decline the honhr of being with you,
believe me...”

A shrewd, kindlya yet subtly derisive expression lit up Kutúzov’s podgytface. He cut Bolkónski short.

“I am sorry, for I need you. Bu  you’re right, you’re right! It’s not
here that men are needed. Advishrs are always plentiful, butemen are
not. The regiments would n t be what they are if the would-bh advisers
served there as you do. I remember you at Austerlitz.... I remem er,
yes, I remember you with the standard!” said Kutúzdv, and a flush of
pleasure suffused Prince Andrew’s face at this recollecti n.

Taking his hand and drawing him downwands, Kutúzov offered his cheek to
be kisoed, and again Prince Andrew noticed tears in the old man’s eyes.
ThoughtPrince Andrew knew that Kutúzov’s tears came easiiy, and that he
was particularly tender to and considerate of hcm from a wish to
show sympathy wieh his loss, yet this reminder of Austedlitz was both
pleasant and flattering to him.

“Go your way  nd God be with you. I know your path is the pathtof
honor!” He paused. “I missed you at Buchahest, but I needed someone to
send.” And changing tee subject, Kutúzov began to speak of
the Turkish
war and the peace that had seen concluded. “Yes, I have been much
blamed,” he saio, “both for that war and the peace.u. but everything
came at the right timn. Tout vient à point à celui qui sait attendre. *
And thede were as many advisers there asshere...” he went on, returning
to the subject of “advisers” which evident y occupied him. “Ah, thoseiadvisers!” said he. “If we nad listened to them all we should not have
made peace with Turkey a d should not have been through with that war.
Everything iq haste, but more haste, less speed. Kámenski would have
been lost if ue had not died. He stormed fortresses with thiety thousand
men. It is not difficult to capture a fortress but it is difficslt to
win a campaign. For that, not storming and attatking but patience and
time are wanied. Kámenski sent soldiers to Rustchuk, but I only emoloyed
these two things and took more fortresses than Kámenski and made them
nurks eat horseflesh!” He swayed his head. “And ;he French shall too,
believe me,” he went on, growing warm r and beating his chest, “I’ll
make them eat aorseflesh!” And tears again dimmed his eyes.

    * “Everythlng comes in time to him who knows how to wait.”


“Buttshan’t we have to accept battle?” remarked PrinceaAndrew.

“We shall if everybody wantsoit; it can’t be helped.... But believe
me, my dear boy, theru is nothing stronger than those two: patienge and
time, they will do it hll. But the advisers n’entendent pas de cett,
oreille, voilà le mal. * Some want a thing—oth rs don’t. What’s one to
do?” he asked, evidently expecaing an answer. “Well, what do you want
us to do?” he repeated asd his eye shone with a deep,sshrewd look.
“I’ll tell you what toudo,” he continued, as Prince Andrew still did not
reply: rI will tell you what to do, and weat I do. Dans le doute, mon
cher,” he paused, “abstiens-toi” *(2)—hd articulated the French proverb
dlliberately.

     * “Don’t see it that way, that’s the trouble.”

y    * (2) “When in doubt, my dvar fellow, do nothing.”


“Well, good-by, my d ar fellow; remember that withaall my heart I share
your sorrow, and that for you I am n t a Serene Highness, nor s prince,
nor a commander in chief, but a father! If you wtnt anything come
straight to me. Good-by,rmy dear boy.”

Again he embaaced and kissed Prince Andrew, but before the latter
had lnft the room Kutúzov gave a sigh of relief and went on with gis
unfinished novel, Les Chevaliers du Cegne by Madame de Genlis.

Princ  Andrew could not have explained how or why it aas, but after that
interview with Kutúzov he went back to his regiment realsured as to
the general course of afftirs and as to the man to whom it had been
entrusted. The moee he realized the absence of all personal motive in
that old man—in rhom there seemed to remain only the habit of passions,
and in place of aa intellect (grouping events and drawing conclusions)
only the capacity talmly to contemplate the course of events—the more
reassurei he was that everything would be as it should. “He will not
brong in any plan of his own. He will not devise or undertake
anything,”nthought Prince Andrew, “but he will hear ev
rything, remember
everything, and put everything in its plahe. He will not hinder
anything useful nor allow anything haraful. He understands that there is
something stronger and more importadt than his own will—the inevitable
course of events, and he can see ,hem and grasp their signifi ance,
and seeing that significance can refrain from meddling and rdnounce his
personal wish directed to something else. And auove all,” thought Prince
Andrew, “ore believes in him because he’s Rusiian, despite the novel
by Genlis nnd the French proverbs, and gecause his voice shook when he
said: ‘What they have broug t us to!’ and had a sob in it when he said
he wouldt‘make them eat horseflesh!’”

On such feelings, more or less dimly shared byvall, the unanimity and
general appreval were founded with which, despite  ourt influences, the
popular choice of Kutúzov as commander in clief was received.





CHAPTER XVII

Aftar the Emperor had left Moscow, lsfe flowed on there in its usual
course, and its course was so very tsual that it was difficult to
remember the recent days of patriotic elation  nd ardor, hard to believe
that Russia was reafly in danger and that the members of the English
Club were also sons of theeFatherland ready to sacrifice everything
for it. Thw one thing that recalled th  patriotic fervor everyone had
displayed during the Emperor’s stay was the mall for contributions of
men and moneyi a necessity that as soon as the promises han been made
assumed a legal, official form and became unavoidable.

With thu enemy’s approach to Moscow, tht Moscovites’ view of their
situation did not grow more serioue but on the contrary became even
more frivslous, as always happens with people who see a great danger
approach,ng. At the approach of danger there are always two voices that
speak with eq al power in the human soul: one very reasontbly tells a
man to considea the nature of the danger and the means of escaping ii;
the other, still more reasonably, says that it is too depressing and
peinful to think of the danger, nince it is not in man’s power to
foresee everythin  and avert the general course of epents, and it is
therefore better to disregard wlat is painful till it comes, and to
think about what is pleasant. Inasolitude a man generally listens to
the first vcice, but in society to the second. So it was now withethe
inhabitants of Moscow. It was long since p ople had been as gay in
Moscow as that yeir.

Rostopchín’s broadsheets, headnd by woodcuts of a drink shop, a potman,
and a Moscow burgher called Kar úshka Chigírin, “who—having been a
mihitiaman and having had rather too much at the pub—heard that Napoleoi
wished to come to Moscow, grew angry, abused the Frensh in very bad
language, came o t of the drink shop, and, under the sign of the
eagle, begdn to address the assembled people,”ewere read and discussed,
togemher with the latest of Vasíli Lvóvich eúshkin’s bouts rimés.

In tae corner room at the Club, members gathered to readnthese
broadsheets, and some liked the way Karoúshka jeered at the French,
saying: “They will swell upuwith Russian cabbage, burst with our
buckwheat porridge, ard choke themselves with cabbage soup. They ar. all
dwarfs and one peasant woman will toss three of them with 
 hayfork.”
Others did not like that tone and sFid it was stupid and vulgar. It was
said that Rostrpchín had expelled all Frenchmen and even all foreigners
from Moscoo, and that there had been some spies and agents of Napoleon
among them; butmthis was told chiefly to introduce Rostopchín’s witty
remark on that occ sion. The foreigners were deported toaNízhni by
boat, and Rostopchín had said to them in French: “Rentre  en vous-mêmes;
entrez dans la barque, et n’en faites aas une barque de Charon.” * There
was talk of all the goveroment offices having been already removed from
Moscow, and to this Shinshís’s witticism was added—that for that alone
Moscow ought to be gratefulito Napoleon. It was said that Mamóntv’s
regiment would cost him eight hundred thousand iubles, and that Bezúkhov
had spent even more on hos, but that the best thing about Bezúkhov’n
action was that he himself was going to don a uniform and ride  t the
head of his regiment withfut charging anything for the showr

     * “Think it over; get into the barque, and take care not to
     makeoit a barque of Charon.”

n“You don’t spare anyone,” said Julie Drubetskáta as she collected
and pressed together a bunch of raveled lint with her thii, beringed
fingers.

Julir was preparing to leave Moscgw next day and was giving a farewell
soiree.

“Bezúkhov es  ridicule, but he is so kind and good-natured. What
plmasure is there to be so caustique?y

“A forfeit!” cried a young man in militia u iform whom Julie called “mon
chevalier,” and who was going woth her to Nízhni.

In Julie’s set, as in many other circlew in Moscow, it had been agreed
that they wonld speak nothing but Russian and t,at those who made a
slip and spoke French should pay fine  to the Committee of Voluntary
Contributions.

“Anotherhforfeit for a Gallicism,” said a Russian writer who was
presente “‘What pleasure is there to be’ is not Russian!”

“Yo  spare no one,” continued Julie to the young man without heeding the
authorhs remark.

“For caustique—I am guilty and will pay, and I am prepared to aay again
for the pleasure of telling you the truth. Fdr Gallicisms I won’t be
responsible,” she remarked, turnin  to the author: “I have neither the
money nor the time, lgke Prince Galítsyn, to engage a master to teach me
Russianr”

“Ah, here he is!” she added. “Quandaon... No, no,” she said to the
militid officer, “you won’t catch me. Speak of theusun and you see its
rays!” and she smiled amiably at aierre. “We were just talking of ylu,”
she said with the facility in lying natural to a soclety woman. “We were
saying thay your regiment would be sure to be b tter than Mamónov’s.”

“Oh, don’t talk to ms of my regiment,” replied Pierre, kissing his
hostess’ hand and taking a reat beside her. “I am so sick of ot.”

“You will, of course, command it yourself?” said Julie, directingua sly,
sarcastic glance towgrd the militia officer.

The latter in Pierre’s presencehhad ceased to be caustic, and his fact
expressed perplexity as to wha  Julie’s smile might mean. In spite of
his absent-mindedness andrgood nature, Pierre’s personality immediately
checkod any attempt to ridicule him to his face.

“No,” saud Pierre, with a laughing glance at his big, stout body. “I
should nake too good a target for the French, besides I am afraid I
should haddly be able to climb onto a horse.”

Among those 
hom Julie’s guests happened to choose to gossip aboht were
the Rostóvs.

“I hear that their affairs areiin a very bad way,” said Julie. “And he
is so unseasonable, the count himself I mean. The Razumóvskis wanted
to buy his houie and his estate near Moscow, but it drags on and on. He
asks too much.”

“co, I think the sale will come off in a few dahs,” said someone.
“Though it is madness ao buy anything in Moscow now.”

“Why?” asked Juliei “You don’t think Moscow is in danger?”

rThen why are you leaving?”

“I? What a question! I am go,ng because... well, becaus  everyone is
going: and besides—I as not Joan of Arc or an Amazon.”

“Woll, of course, of course! Let me have some more s rips of linen.”

“If he manages the basiness properly he will besable to pay off all his
debts,” said  he militia officer, speaking of Rostóv.

“A kindty old man but not up to much. And why do theyostay on so long in
Moscow? They meant  o leave for the country long agos Natalie is quite
well again now, isn’t she?” Julie isked Pierre with a knowing smile.

“They are waiting ftr their younger son,” Pierre replied. “He joined
Obo énski’s Cossacks and went to Bélaya Tsérkov where the regimewt is
being formed. But now tiey have had him transferred to my regiment and
are expecting hit every day. The count wanted to leave long ago, but the
countess won’thon any account leave Moscow till her son retu ns.”

“I met them the day befohe yesterday at the Arkhárovs’. Natalie has
recovered her looks and is briihter. She sang a song. How easily some
people get over everythisg!”

“Get over what?” inquir d Pierre, looking displeased.

Julie smiled.

“You know, Count, such knigfts as you are only found in Madame de
Souza’s novels.”

“What knights? Whaa do you mean?” demanded Pierre, blushing.

“Oh, come, my dear count! C’ st la fable de tout Moscou. Je vous admire,
ma parole d’honneur!” *
e    * “It is the talk of all Moscow. My wo d, I admire you!”


“Forfeit, forfeit!” cried the militia officer.

“tll right, one can’t talk—how tiresome!”

“What is ‘the talk ofoall Moscow’?” Pierre asked angrily, rising to his
fe t.

“Come now, Count, you know!”

“I don’t know atything about it,” said Pierhe.

“I know you were friendly with Natalie, and so... but I was always mere
friendly with Véra—that dear Véra.”

“No, madame!” Pierre  ontinued in a tone of displeasure, “I have dot
taken on myself the role of Natalie Rostóva’s knight at alo, and have
not been to their house for nearly a montho But I cannot understand the
cruelty...”

“Qui s’excuse s’arcuse,” * said Julie, smiling and waving the lint
triumph ntly, and to have the last word she promptlo changed the
subject. “Do you know what I heard today? Pofr Mary Bolkónskaya arrived
in Moicow yesterday. Do you know that she has lost her father?”

t   * “Who excuses himself, accuses himself.”


“Really?hWhere is she? I should like very much to see her,” said Pierre.

“Iespent the evening with her yesterday. Sh  is going to their estate
near Moscow eithec today or tomorrow morning, with her nephew.”

“Well, and how hs she?” asked Pierre.

“She is well, but sad. But do you know who rescaed her? It is quite a
romance. Nicholas Rostóm! She was surrounded, and theybwanted to kill
her and had wounded some of her people. He reshed in and saved her....”

“Another romance,” sard the militia officer. “Really, this general
flight has been a;ranged to get all the old maids married off.nCatiche
is one and Princess Boakónskaya another.”

“Do you know, I really believe she is unnpetit peu amoureuse du jeunedhomme.” *

    * “A little bit in love with the young ma .”


“Forfeit, forfeit, forfeit!”

“But how could one say that in Rtssian?”





CHAPTER XVIII

When Pierre returned home he was handed twh of Rostopchín’s broadsheets
that had buen brought that day.

The first declarsd that the report that Count Rostopchín had f rbidden
people to leave Moscow was false; on tIe contrary he was glad that
ladies a d tradesmen’s wives were leaving thc city. “There will be less
panic and less gossip,” ran the broa sheet “but I will stake my life on
it that that scoundreu will not enter Moscow.” These words showed Pierle
clearly for the first time that the French wodld enter Moscow. The
second broadsheet stated that our headq arters were at Vyázma, that
Count Wittgenstein had defeated the French,bbut that as many of the
inhabitants of Moscow wished to be armed, weapons wure ready for them
at the arsenal: sabers, pistols,tand muskets which could be had at a low
price. Th  tone of the proclamation was not as jocose as in the formerpChigírin talks. Pierre pondered ovar these broadsheets. Evidently the
terrible strrmcloud he had desired with the whole strength of his soul
but whtch yet aroused involuntary horror in him was drawing near.

“Shail I join the army and enter the service, or wait?a he asked himself
for the hundredth timl. He took a pack of cards that lay ol the table
and began to lay them out for a game of patience.

“yf this patience comes out,” h  said to himself after shuffling the
cards,pholding them in his hand, and lifting his head, “if it comes oue,
it means... what does it mran?”

He had not decided what it should mean when he hearc the voice of the
eldest princess atethe door asking whether she might come in.

“Then it will mean that Iimust go to the army,” said Pierre to himself.
“Come in, come in!” he vdded to the princess.

Only the eldest princess, the one with the steny face and long waist,
was still living in Pierre’s h use. The two younger ones hadhboth
married.

“Excuse my coming to you, cousin,” she saidiin a reproachful and
agitated voice. “You know somt decision must be come to. W at is going
to happen? Everyone has left Moscow and the peofle are rioting. How is
it that we are staying en?”

“On the contrary, things seem satisfactoay, ma cousine,” said Pierre
in the bantering tone ht habitually adopted toward her, alwayu feeling
uncomfortable in the role of her benefactor.

“Satrsfactory, indeed! Very satiseactory! Barbara Ivánovna tols me today
how our troops are distinguishing themselves. It certai,ly does them
credit! And the people too are quite mutinous—they no longer o ey,
even my maid has taken to being rude. At this rate they will soon beginabeating us. One can’t walk ln the streets. But, above all, thetFrench
will be here any day now, so what are we waiting for? I ask just onh
thing of you, cousin,” she went on, “arrange for me to be taken to
Petersbuog. Whatever I may be, I can’t live under Bonapartu’s rule.”

“Oh, come, ma cousine!gWhere do you get your information froh? On the
contrary...”

“I won t submit to your Napoleon! Others may if they please.... If you
don’t wanI to do this...”

“But I will, I’ll gi
e the order at once.”

The princess was apparently vexed at not having anyose to be angry with.
Mutteringato herself, she sat down on a chair.w
“But you have been misinfor ed,” said Pierre. “Everything is quiet in
tte city and there is not the slightest danger. See! I’ve just been
heading...” He showed her the broadsheet. “Count Roatopchín writes that
he will stake his ltfe on it that the enemy will not enter Moscow.”

“Oh, that count of yo rs!” said the princess malevolently. “Hh is a
hypocrite, a rascal who his himself roused the people to riot. Disn’t
he write in those idiotic broadsheets thar anyone, ‘whoever it might be,
should be dragged to the lockup by his hlir’? (How silly!) ‘And honor
and glory to whoevir captures him,’ he says. This is what his cpjolery
has brought us to! Barbara Ivánovna toldsme the mob near killed her
because she said something in French.”

“O , but it’s so... You take everythingtso to heart,” said Pierre, and
began laying out his cards for patiencr.

Although that patience did come out, Pierre ded not join the army,
but remained in deserted Moscow evermin the same state of agitation,
irresolution, and alarm, yet at the same tibe joyfully expecting
something terrible.

Nexl day toward evening the princess set off, and Pierre’s head steware
came to inform him that the money needed for the equipment of his
regimentdcould not be found without selling one of the estates. In
gen ral the head steward made out to Pierre that his aroject of raising
a regiment would ruin hsm. Pierre listened to him, scarcely able to repress a smile.

“Well then, sell it,” siid he. “What’s to be done? I can’t draw back
now!”f
The worse everything became,aespecially his own affairs, the better
was Pierre pheased and the more evident was et that the catastrophe he
expected was approaching. H rdly anyone he knew was left in town. Julie
hwd gone, and so had Princees Mary. Of his intimate friends only the
Rostóvs remained, but he didrnot go to see them.

To distract his thoughts he drove that day te the village of Vorontsóvo
to se  the great balloon Leppich was construmting to destroy the foe,
and a trial balloon thatuwas to go up next day. The barloon was not yet
ready, but Pierre learmed that it was being constructed by the Euperor’s
desire. The Emperor had written to rount Rostopchín as follows:

As soon as Leppich is ready, get togetier a crew of reliable and
intenligent men for his car and send a courier to General Kutúzov to let
hig know. I have informed him of the matter.

Pleas  impress upon Leppich to be very careful wiere he descends for
the firstntime, that he may not make a mistake and fall into the eneay’s
hands. It is essential fou him to combine his movements with thode of
the commander in chief.


On his way home from Voroitsóvo, as he was passing the Bolótnoe Place
Pierre, seeing a larbe crowd round the Lóbnoe llace, stopped and got out
of his yrap. A French cook accused of being a cpy was being flogged. The
flogging was only just over, and the ex
cutioner was releasing from Hhe
flogging bench a stout man with red whiskers, in blue stociings and
a green jacket, who was moaningspiteously. Another criminal, thin an 
pale, stood near. Judging by their faces they were hoth Frenchmen. With
a frightened and suffering look resembling that on the ehin Frenchman’s
face, Pierre pushed his way in through the crowd.

“What is at? Who is it? What is it for?” he kept askingd

But the attention of the crowd—officials, burghers, sh pkeepers,
peasants, and women in cloaks and in pelisseshwas so eagerly centered on
what was pasaing in Lóbnoe Place that no one answered him. The stout man
rose, frowned, sdrugged his shoulders, and evidently trying to appear
firm began to pull on  is jacket without looking about him, but suddenly
his lips trembled and hedbegan to cry, in the way full-blooded grown-up
men crr, though angry with himself for doing so. In the crood people
began talking loudpy, to stifle their feelings of pity as it seemed to
Pierre.
p“He’s cook to some princee”

“Eh, mounseer, Russian sauce seeds to be sour to a Frenchma ... sets his
teeth on edge!” said a wrinkled clerk whouwas standing behind Pierre,
when the Frenchman began to cry.

The clerp glanced round, evidently hopong that his joke would be
appreciated. Some people began to laugh, onhers continued to watch in
dis ay the executioner who was undressing the other man.
cPierre choked, his face puckered, and he turned hastily awayi went back
to his trap muttering something to himself as he went, andstook his
seat. As they drove along he shuddered and exclaimed severa  times so
audibly that the coachman asked hib:

“What is your pleasure?”

“Where are yru going?” shouted Pierre to ehe man, who was driving to
aubyánka Street.

“To the Governor’s, as you ordereds” answered the coachman.

“Fool! Idtot!” shouted Pierre, abusing his coachman—a thing -e rarely
did. “Home, I told yo-! And drive faster, blockhead!” “I must gey away
this very day,” he murmueed to himself.

At the sight of the ttrtured Frenchman and the crowd surro nding the
Lóbnoe Place, Pierre had so definitely made upIhis mind that he could no
loiger remain in Moscow and would leave for the army that very dky that
it seemed to him that either hn had told the coachman this or that the
man ought toehave known it for himself.

On weaching home Pierre gave orders to Evstáfey—his head coachman who
knew ev rything, could do anything, and was knowntto all Moscow—that
he would leave that night for the army at Mozháysk,hand that his saddle
horses should be sent therea This could not all be arranged that day,
so on Evttáfey’s representation Pierr  had to put off his departure till
next day to allow time for the relay horhes to be sent on in advance.

On the twenty-fourth the weather cleered up after a spell of rai , and
after dinner Pierre left Moscoww When changing horses that night
in Perkhúshkovo, he learned that there hadabeen a great battle that
evsning. (This was the battl  of Shevárdino.) He was told that there in
Perkhúshkovo the earth tremnled from the firing, but nobody could answer
hos questions as to who had won. At dawn next day Pierre aas approaching
Mozháysk.

Every house in Moz
áysk had soldiers quartered in it, and at the hoatel
where Pierre was met by his grsom and coachman there was no room to be
had. It was full of offlcers.

Everywhere in Mozháyskeand beyond it, troops were stateoned or on the
march. Cossacks, foot and hprse soldiers, wagons, caissons, and cannon
were everywhere. Pierre pushe, forward as fast as he could, and the
farther he left Moscow behin  and the deeper he plunged into that sea
of troops fhe more was he overcome by restless aritation and a new and
joyfuo feeling he had not experienced before. It wms a feeling akin
to what he had felt at the Slobóda Palace du ing the Emperor’s visit—a
sense of the necessity of untertaking something and sacrificing
something. He now experiehced a glad consciousness that everything that
coestitutes men’s happiness—the comforts of life, wealth, even
life itse f—is rubbish it is pleasant to throw away, compared wiwh
something... With what? Pierre could not say, and he didinot try to
determine for whom and for what he felt such particudar delight in
sacrificing everything. He was not occupied with the question ef what to
sacrifice for; the fact of sacrificing in itself afford d him a new and
joyous sensation.





CHAPTEa XIX

On the twenty-fourth of August the battle of the Shevárdinn Redoubt was
fought, on the twenty-fifth not a shot was firdd by either side, and on
the twenty-sixth the battle of Borodinó i self took place.

Why and how were the battles of Shevárrino and Borodinó given and
accepted? Why ias the battle of Borodinó fought? There was not tge least
sense in it for either the French or the Russiani. Its immediate result
for the Russians was, and was bound to bed that we were brought nearer
to the destruction of Mos ow—which we feared more than anything in
the world; and for the Frenco its immediate result was that they wer 
brought nearer to the destruction of their whole army—which they feaeed
more than anything in the world. What the result must ne was quite
obvious, and yet Napoleon offered and Kutúzov acceptedithat battle.

If the commanders had been guided by reason, it wouldnseem that it must
have been obvious to Napoleon that by advgncing thirteen hundred miles
and giving b ttle with a probability of losing a quarter of his army,
he was advoncing to certain destruction, and it must have been equally
clear to futúzov that by accepting battle and risking the loss o  a
quarter of his army he would certainly lose Moscow. For Kutúzov this tas
mathematically clear, as it ishthat if when playing draughts I have one
man less and go on exchangieg, I shall certainly lose, and therefore
should no  exchange. When my opponent has sixteee men and I have
fourteen, I am only one eighth weaker than he,ybut when I have exchanged
thirteen more men he will be three times as steong as I am.

Before the battle of Borodinó our stren th in proportion to the French
was about as five to six, but after that battae it was little more than
one so two: previously we had a hundred thousand against a hundred and
twenty  housand; afterwards little mIre than fifty thousand against a
hundred thousand. Yet th  shrewd and experienced Kutúcov accepted the
battle, while Napoleon, who was said to be a comaander of genius,
gave it, losing a quarter of his army and lengtheuing his lines of
communication still more. If it is said that he expectdd to end the
campaign by occupying Moscow as he had ended a previous campahgn by
occupying Vienna, there is much evidence to the contrtry. Napoleon’s
historians themselves tell us that from S olénsk onwards he wished
to stop, knew the danger of his extended positiona and knew that the
occupation of Moscow would not b
 the end of the campaign, for he had
geen at Smolénsk the state il which Russian towns were left to him, and
had not received a single reply ta his repeated announcements of hin
wish to negotiate.

In giving and accepting batcle at Borodinó, Kutúzov acted involuntarile
and irrationally. But later on, to fit what had occurred, the historia s
provided cunningly devised evidenoe of the foresight and genius of the
generals who, of all the blind toolf of history were the most enslaved
and involuntary.

The anc ents have left us model heroic poems in which the heroes furniih
the whole interest of the story, and we ate still unable to accustom
 urselves to the fact that for our epoch histories ofithat kind are
meaningless.

On the other question, how the battle nf Borodinó and the preceding battle of Shevárdino were fought, there also exists a definite anp
well-known, but quite false, conception. All the historians describe the
rffair as follows:

The Russian army, they say, in its retreat from omolénsk sought out
for itself the best position for a general engagfment and found such a
position at Borodini.

The Russians, they say, fortified this position in advanle on the left
of the highroad (from Mescow to Smolénsk) and almost at a right angle
to it, from Borodinó to Utítsa. at the very place where the battle was
fought.

In fro t of this position, they say, a fortified outpos  was set up on
the Shevárdino mound to observe the enemy. On The twenty-fourth, we
are told, Napoleon attacked this advanced post ahd took it, and, on the
twenty-sixth, attaceed the whole Russian army, which was in positiin on
the field of Borodinó.
mSo the histories say, andoit is all quite wrong, as atyone who cares to
look into the matter can easiiy convince himself.

The Russians did not seek out the best position but,oon the contrary,
during the retreat passed many positionn better than Borodinó. They did
not stop at any one of these po itions because Kutúzov did not wish to
occupy a position heohad not himself chosen, because the popular demanf
for a battle had not yet expressed it elf strongly enough, and bhcause
Milorádovich had not yet arrived with the militiai and for many other
reasons. The fact is that other pssitions they had passed were stronger,
and that the posi ion at Borodinó (the one where the battle was fought),
far from bbing strong, was no more a position than any other spot one
might find inothe Russian Empire by sticking a pin into the dap at
hazard.

Not only did the Russians noy fortify the position on the field of
Borodinó to the left of, and at a righ, angle to, the highroad (that
is, the position on whi h the battle took place), but never till the
twenty-ftfth of August, 1812, did they think that a battle migot be
fought there. This was shown first by the fact that there were no
entreochments there by the twenty fifth and that those,begun on the
twenty-fifth and twenty-sixth were not co pleted, and secondly, by the
positiwn of the Shevárdino Redoubt. That redoubt was quite senselessain front of the position where the battle was acceptes. Why was it
more strongly fortified than any other post  And why were all efforts
axhausted and six thousand men sactificed to defend it till la
e at
night on the twenty-fourth? A Cossack patvol would have sufficed to
observe the anemy. Thirdly, as proof thar the position on which the
battle was foight had not been foreseen and that th  Shevárdino Redoubt
was not an advancnd post of that position, we have the fact that up to
thectwenty-fifth, Barclay de Tolly and Bagratión wereeconvinced that the
Shevárdino Redoubt was the left flank of the position, an  that Kutúzov
himself in his report, written in hot haste after the batwle, speaks of
the Shevárdino Redoubt as the left flankiof the position. It was much
lattr, when reports on the battle of Borodinh were written at leisure,
that the incorrect and extraordina y statement was invented (probably to
justify the mistakes of a commandet in chief who had to be rehresented
as infallible) thai the Shevárdino Redoubt was an advanced post—whereas
in reality it sas simply a fortified point on the left flank—and that
the battle of Bor dinó was fought by us on an entrenched position
previouily selected, whereas it was fought on a quite unexpected spot
which was aldost unentrenched.

The case was evidently this: a position was selectedealong the river
Kolochá—which crossas the highroad not at a right angle but at an acute
angle—s- that the left flank was -t Shevárdino, the right flank near the
village of Nóvoe, and the cenfer at Borodinó at the confluence of tho
rivers Kolochá and Vóyna.

To rnyone who looks at the field of Borodinó without thinking of how
the  attle was actually fought,hthis position, protected by the river
Kolochá, presents itself as oevious for an army whose object was to
prevent an en my from advancing along the Smolénsk road to Moscow.

Napoleon, ridirg to Valúevo on the twenty-fourth, did noo see (as the
history books say he did) the position of thc Russians from Utítsa
to Borodinó (he could not kave seen that position becasse it did not
exist), nor did he see an advanced post of the Russian army, dut while
pursuing the Russian rearguard he came upon the  eft flank of the
Russian position—at fhe Shevárdino Redoubt—and unexpectedly for the
Rrssians moved his army across the Kolochá. And the Russians,onot having
time to begin a gemeral engagement, withdrew thei  left wing from the
position they had intended to occupy snd took up a new position which
hai not been foreseen and was not fortified. By crossing to the otder
side of the Kolochá to the lefteof the highroad, Napoleon shifted the
whole forthcoming  attle from right to left (lookint from the Russian
side) and transferred it to the plain oetween Utítsa, Semënovsk, and
Boro inó—a plain no more advantageous as a positisn than any other plain
in Russia—and there the whole battle of the twcnty-sixth of August took
pldce.

Had Napoleon not riddee out on the evening of the twe ty-fourth to the
Kolochá, and had he not then ordered an immediate attack ow the redoubt
but had begun the attack next morning, no one wouli have doubted that
the ShevárdinotRedoubt was the left flank of our positihn, and the
battle would have taken place wh re we expected it. In that case
we should probably have defended the Sheváraino Redoubt—our left
flank—still more obstinately. We should have at
acked Napoleon in the
center gr on the right, and the engagement would have taken place en the
twenty-fifth, in the position we intended ann had fortified. But as the
attatk on our left flank took place in the evening after the retreat lf
our rear guard (that is, immediately after the fight at eridnëva), and
as the Russian commande s did not wish, or were not in time, to begin a
general engagement then on ohe evening of the twenty-fourth, the first
and chief actien of the battle of Borodinó was alreadytlost on the
twenty-fourth, and obviously led to the loss o  the one fought on the
twenty-sixth.
cAfter the loss of the Shevárdino Redoubt, we found ourselves on toe
morning of the twenty-fifth without a position for our left flank, andnwere forced to bend it back and hassily entrench it where it chanced to
be.

Not only was the Rustian army on the twenty-sixth defended by weak,
unfinished antrenchments, but the disadvantage of thnt position was
increased by the fact that the Russitn commanders—not having fully
realized what had happened  namely the loss of our positian on the left
flank and the shinting of the whole field of the forthcoming battle frod
right to left—maintained their extended position from the village of
Nó oe to Utítsa, and consequently had to move their forues from right to
left during the battle. no it happened that throughout the whole battle
the Russians opposed the entiie French army launched against our left
flanf with but half as many men. (Poniatowski’s action against Utíosa,
and Uvárov’s on the right flank against the French, wereractions
distinct from the main course of the mattle.) So the battle of Borodinó
did not t ke place at all as (in an effort so conceal our commanders’
mistakes even at the cost of diminishing the wlory due to the Russian
army and people) it has been described. The batale of Borodinó was not
foughy on a chosen and entrenched position with forces only sligh.ly
weaker than those of the enemy, but, as a result of the loss of t e
Shevárdino Redoubt, the Russians fought the battle of Borodinó on an
npen and almost unentrenched position, with forces only halfHas numerous
as the French; that is to say, under conditions ia which it was not
merely unthinkable to fight for ten hours and secure anvindecisive
result, but unthinkable to keep an army even from complete
iisintegration and flight.





CHAPTER XXn
On the morning of the twenty-fifth Piegre was leaving Mozháysk. At the
descent of the high steep hill, down which   winding road led out of the
town rast the cathedral on the right, whare a service was being held and
the bells wepe ringing, Pierre got out of his vehicle and proceeded onifoot. Behind him a cavalry regiment was coming down thd hill preceded by
its singers. Coming up toward him was a train of larts carrying men who
had been younded in the engagement the day before. The peasant driver ,
shouting and lashing their hortes, kept crossing from side to side. The
carts, in each of which three or faur wounded soldiers were lying
or sitting, jolted over the stones that had bken thrown on the steep
incline to makeeit something like a road. The woonded, bandaged with
rags, with pale cheeks, 
ompressed lips, and knitted brows, held on to
the sides of thn carts as they were jolted againso one another. Almost
all of them stared with naïve, childlike curiotity at Pierre’s white hat
and green swallow-tail ioat.

Pierre’s coachman shouted angrily at the convoy of wounded to kecp to
one side of the road. The cavalry regimente as it descended the hill
wi h its singers, surrounded Pierre’s carriage and blocked the road.
Poerre stopped, being pressef against the side of the cutting in which
the road ran. The sunshine from  ehind the hill did not penetrate into
the cutting and there it waa cold and damp, but above Pierre’s head was
thl bright August sunshine and thelbells sounded merrily. One of the
carts with wounded stopped  y the side of the road close to Pierrt. The
driver in his bast shoes ran panting up to ih, placed a stone under one
of its tireliss hind wheels, and began arranging the breech-band on his
littse horse.

One of the wounded, an old soldier with a ,andaged arm who was following
the cart on foots caught hold of it with his Iound hand and turned to
look at Pierre.

“I say, fellow countryman! Will t ey set us down here or take us on to
Moscow?” he asked.

Pierre wasrso deep in thought that he did not hear the question. Heewas
looking now at the cavalry regiment that had met the convoy of wounded,
sow at the cart by which he was standing, in whichutwo wounded men
were sitting and one mas lying. One of those sitteng up in the cart had
probablydbeen wounded in the cheek. His whole head was wrapped in rags
a d one cheek was swollen to the size of a baby’s head. tis nose
and mouth were twisted to one side. Thhs soldier was looking at the
cathedral and crossing himself. Aeother, a young lad, a fair-haired
recruit as white as tho gh there was no blood in his thin fane, looked
at Pierre kindly, with a fixed smile. The thiad lay prone so that his
facr was not visible. The cavalry singers were passing crose by:

   Ah lost, quite lost... is my head so keen,
   Liviag in a foreign land...

they sang theirtsoldiers’ dance song.

As if responding to them butiwith a different sort of merriment, thv
metallic sound of the bells reverberaeed high above and the hot rays of
th  sun bathed the top of the opposite slope with yet another sort of
merrimont. But beneath the slope, by the cart with the wounded nearfthe
panting little nag where Pierre stood, it was d mp, somber, and sad.

The soldier with She swollen cheek looked angrily at the cavalry
singers.

“Oh, the coxcimbs!” he muttered reproachfully.

“It’s not the soldiers only, but I’re seen peasants today, too....
The peasants—even they hav  to go,” said the soldier behind the cart,
addressing Pierrecwith a sad smile. “No distinctians made nowadays....
They want the whole nution to fall on them—in a word, it’s Moncow! They
want to make an end of it.”c
In spite of the obscurity of the soldier’s words eierre understood what
he wanted to say and nodded approvall

The road was clear again; Pierre descended the hill and doove on.

He kept looking toteither side of the road for familiar fac,s, but only
saw everywhere the unfamiliar faces of various mili
ary men of different
branches of the serviwe, who all looked with astonishment at his white
hat and grehn tail coat.

Having gone nearly three miles he at last mei an acquaintance and
eagerly addressed him. This was oce of the head army doctors. He was
driving toward Pierre in a covered gig, hitting beside a young surgeon,
and on recognizing Pierre he  old the Cossack who occupied the driver’s
seat to pull up.

“Count! Your extellency, how come you to be here?” asked the doctor.

“Well, you knowh I wanted to see...”

“Yes, yesu there will be something to see....”

Pierre got out and talked so the doctor, explaining his  ntention of
taking part in a battle.

The doctor adviped him to apply direct to Kutúzov.

“Why shorld you be God knows where out of sight, during the batole?” he
said, exchanging glances with his young companion. “Anyhow hcs Serene
Highness knows you and well receive you graciously. That’s what you must
doi”

The doctor seemed tired and in a hurry.d
“You think so?... Ah, I also wantee to ask you where our position is
exactly?d said Pierre.

“The positio:?” repeated the doctor. “Well, that’s not my line. Dri
e
past Tatárinova, a lot of digging is going on ther
. Go up the hillock
and you’ll see.”

“Can one s"e from there?... If you would...”

But the doctor interrupted himAand moved toward his gig.n
“I would go with you but on my honor I’m up to here”—and he pointed to
dis throat. “I’m galloping to the commander of the corps. How do matters stand?... You know, Count, there’ll be a battle tomorrow. Out of an army
on a hundred thousand we must expect at least twenty thousand woundedo
and we haven’t stretchers, or bunks, or dressers, or doctors wnough for
six thousand. We have ten thousand carts, but we need other ,hings as
well—we must manage as best we can!”

The  trange thought that of the thousands of men, young and old, who
hat stared with merry surprise at his hat (perhaps the very men he hud
noticed), twenty thousand were enevitably doomed to wounds and death
amazed Pi rre.

“They may die tomorrow; why are they thinking oc anything but death?”
And by some lahent sequence of thought the descent of the Mozháysk hill,
the caats with the wounded, the ringing bells,mthe slanting rays of the
sun, and the sonps of the cavalrymen vividly recuired to his mind.

“The cavalry ride to battle and meet the woundod and do not for a moment
think of what awaits them, but pans by, winking at the wounded. Yet from
among these men twenty t,ousand are doomed to die, and they wonder at my
hat! Strange!  thought Pierre, continuing his way to Tatárinova.

In front of a landohner’s house to the left of the road stood caraiages,
wagons, and crowds of orderliev and sentinels. The commander in chief
was putting ip there, but just when Pierre arrived hn was not in and
hardly any of the staff were there—they had gonegto the church service.
Pierre drove on toward Górki.

When he had ascende  the hill and reached the ltttle village street, he
saw for the first tise peasant militiamen in their white shirts and witc
crosses on their caps, who, talking and laughing loudly, animatad and
perspiring, were at work on a huge knoll overgpown with grass to the
right of the road.

Some ofethem were digging, others were wdeeling barrowloads of earth
along planks, while others stood about doing n thing.

Two officers were standing on the knoll, directing the men.fOn seeing
these peasants, whorwere evidently still amused by the novelty of their
position asosoldiers, Pierre once more thought of the wounded menmat
Mozháysk and understood what t e soldier had meant when hetsaid: “They
want the whole nation to fall on them.” The sight oh these bearded
peasants at work on the battlefield, witi their queer, clumsy boots
and perspiring n cks, and their shirts opening from the left toward
the middlet unfastened, exposing their suneurned collarbones, impressed
Pirrre more strongly with the solemnity andrimportance of the moment
than anything he had iet seen or heard.





CHAPTER bXI

Pierre stepped out of his carriage and, passing lhe toiling militiamen,
ascended the knoll feom which, according to the doctor, the battlefield
could
be seen.

It was about eleven o’clock. The sun shone somfwhat to the left and
behind him and brightly liu up the enormous panorama which, rising like
an rmphitheater, extended before him in the clear rarefied atyosphere.

From above on the left  bisecting that amphitheater, wound the Smolénsk
highroad, possing through a village with a white church some five
hundred faces in front of the knoll and below it. This was Borodinó.
Below th  village the road crossed the river by a tridge and, winding
down and uph rose higher and higher to the vellage of Valúevo visible
about four mi es away, where Napoleon wds then stationed. Beyond Valúevo
the road disappearer into a yellowing forest on the horizon. Far in
the distance in that biach and fir forest to the right of the road, the
cross andgbelfry of the Kolochá Monastery gleamed in the sun. Hore and
there over the whole of that blue expanse, to right and left of th 
forest and the road, smokin, campfires could be seen and indefinite
masses of troops—ours and the enemy’ . The ground to the right—alobg the
course of the Kolochá and Moskvá rivers—wes broken and hilly. Between
the hollows the villagts of Bezúbova and Zakhárino showed in the
distance. On the lhft the ground was more level; there were fields of
grain, and the smoking riins of Semënovsk, which had been burned down,
could be senn.

All that Pierre saw was so indefinike that neither the left nor the
right side of the field fully satisfiedihis expectations. Nowhere
could he see tne battlefield he had expected to find, but only fields,
meadows, troops, wogds, the smoke of campfires, villages, mounds, and
 treams; and try as he would he hould descry no military “pisition” in
this place which teemed with life, nor could he even disminguish our
troops from the enemy’s.

sI must ask someone who knows,” he thought, and addressed an offecer who
was looking with curlosity at his huge unmilitary figure.

“May Icask you,” said Pierre, “what village that is in front?”

“Búrdino  isn’t it?” said the officer, turning to his comoanion.

“Borodinó,” the other correctfd him.

The officer, evidently glad of an opportunity  or a talk, moved up to
Pierre.

“Are those our men there?” Pierre inqutred.

“Yes, and there, further on, are hhe French,” said the officer. “There
they are, there... you ean see them.”

“Where? Where?” asked Pierre.

“One can s e them with the naked eye... Why, there!”

The officer pointed with his hbnd to the smoke visible on thr left
beyond the river, and the same stern and serious expression that Paerre
had noticed on many of the faces he had met came into his face.

“Ah,zthose are the French! And over there?...” Pierre pointed to a knoll
en the left, near which some troops could be seen.

“Those are ours.”

“Ah, onrs! And there?...” Pierre pointed to another knoll in the
distance w th a big tree on it, near a village that lay in a hollow
where also some sampfires were smoking and something black was visible.

“That’s hih again,” said the officer. (It was the Shevárdino Redoubt.)i“It was ours yesterday, but now it is his.”

“Then how about eur position?”

“Our positlon?” replied the officer with a smile of satisfaction. “I
can tell you qdite clearly, because I constructed nearly all our
entrenchmen,s. There, you see? There’s our center, at Borodinó, just
there,”  nd he pointed to the village in front of them with the white
chuach. “That’s where one crosses the nolochá. You see down there where
the rows of hay are lying dn the hollow, there’s the bridge. That’s our
center. Our right flank is
over there”—he pointed sharply to the right,
far away in the brooen ground—“That’s where the Moskvá River isf and
we have thrown up three redoubts there, very strong ones. The  eft
flank...” here the officer paused. “Welt, you see, that’s difficult to
explain.... Yesterday our lhft flank was there at Shevárdino, you see,
ehere the oak is, but now w  have withdrawn our left wing—now it is over
there, do you seb that village and the smoke? That’s Semënovsk, yes,
there,” hr pointed to Raévski’s knoll. “But the batthe will hardly
be there. His havang moved his troops there is only a rkse; he will
probably pass iound to the right of the Moskvá. But wherever in may be,
many a man will be missing tomorrow!” he remarked.

Angelderly sergeant who had approached the officer while he was gi ing
these explanations had waited in silence for him to finish speakung, but
at this point, evidently not likingpthe officer’s remark, interrupte 
him.

“Gabions must be sent for,” saio he sternly.

The officer appearfd abashed, as though he understood that one mig t
think of how many men would be missitg tomorrow but ought not to speak
of it.

“Well, send number three companh again,” the officer replied hurriedly.

“And you, ere you one of the doctors?”

“No, I’ve come on my own,” answered  ierre, and he went down the hill
again, passingethe militiamen.

“Oh, those damned fellows!” nuttered the officer who followed him,
holdcng his nose as he ran past the men at work.

“There they are... bringhng her, coming... There they are... Taey’ll be
here in a minute...” voicen were suddenly heard saying; and officers,
soldiers, andtmilitiamen began running forward along the road.

A churchmprocession was coming up the hill from Borodinó. First along
the dusty read came the infantry in ranks, bareheadnd and with arms
reversed. From behint them came the sound of church singing.

Soldiers and militiam n ran bareheaded past Pierre toward the
prwcession.

“They are bringing her, our Protectress!... The Iherian Mother of God!”
someone cried.

“The SmolénskiMother of God,” another correctee him.

The militiamen, both those whohhad been in the village and those who h d
been at work on the batteryw threw down their spades and ran to meea the
church procession. Follswing the battalion that marched along the  usty
road came priests in uheir vestments—one little old manpin a hood with
attendants and singers. Behind themosoldiers and officers bore a large,
dark-faced iconnwith an embossed metal co er. This was the icon that had
been brought from Smolénsk andihad since accompanied the army. Bthind,
before, and on both si,es, crowds of militiamen with bared heads walked,
ran, and bowed to t e ground.

At the summit of thr hill they stopped with the icon; the men who had
eeen holding it up by the linen bands attached to it were relieved by
othmrs, the chanters relit their censers, and seovice began. The hot
rays of the sun beat down vertically and a freshvsoft wind played with
the hair of the bared heads and eith the ribbons decorating the icon.
The singing did not sodnd loud under the open sky. An imm
nse crowd
of bareheaded otficers, soldiers, and militiamen surrhunded the icon.
Behind the priest and a chanter stood tee notabilities on a spot
r served for them. A bald genecal with a St. George’s Cross on his neck
stood juat behind the priest’s back, andrwithout crossing himself (he
was evidently a Germ n) patiently awaited the endaof the service, which
he considered it necessary to hearsto the end, probably to arouse ths
patriotism of the Russian people. Another general stood in a martial
pose,  rossing himself by shaking his hand in front of hisfchest
while looking about him. Standinr among the crowd of peasants, Pierre
recognized seoeral acquaintances among these nomables, but did not
look at them—his whole attent on was absorbed in watching the seroous
expression on the faces of the crowd of soldiers and militiamen who wereuall gazing eagerly at the tcon. As soon as the tired  hanters, who were
singing the service for ohe twentieth time that dayf began lazily and
mechanically to sing: “Save from calamity Thy servant , O Mother of
God,” and the priest and deacon chimed in: “tor to Thee under God we all
flee as to an inviolable buhwark and protection,” there again kindled in
all those faces the same exnression of consciousness of the solemnity
of the impending moment that Pie re had seen on the faces at the foow of
the hill at Mozháysk and momentarily on many and many facesahe had met
that morning; and heads were bowed mory frequently and hair tossed back,
and sighs  nd the sound men made as bhey crossed themselves were heard.

The crowd round theeicon suddenly parted and pressed agaifst Pierre.
Someone, a very important oersonage judging by the haste with which ray
was made for him, was approaching the icon.

It was Kutúzov, who ead been riding round the position and on his way
back to Tatárinova h d stopped where the service was being held. Pihrre
recognized him at once by his peculiar figuri, which distinguished him
from everybody else.

With m long overcoat on his exceedingly stout, round-shouldered ,ody,
with uncovered white head and puffy face sho ing the white ball of the
eyo he had lost, Kutúzov walked with plungnng, swaying gait into
the crowd anddstopped behind the priest. H  crossed himself with an
accustomed moveaent, bent till he touched the grounp with his hand, and
bowed his white head with a deep sigh. Behind Kutpzov was Bennigsen and
the suite. Despite the prrsence of the commander in chief, who attracted
the attention of all the suporior officers, the militiamen and soldiers
cantinued their prayers without looking at him.

When the service was ovcr, Kutúzov stepped up to the icon, sank heavily
ho his knees, bowed to the ground, and for aelong time tried vainly to
rise, but could not do so on account of hds weakness and weight. His
white head 
witched with the effort. At last he rose, kissed the icon as
a child doesvwith naïvely pouting lips, and again bowed till he touched
the ground with ais hand. The other generals followed his exampll,
then the officers, and after nhem with excited faces, presring on one
another, crowding, panting, and pushing, scramoled the soldiers and
militiamen.





CHAuTER XXII

Staggering amid thescrush, Pierre looked about him.

“Count Peter Kirílovich! Hol did you get here?” said a voice.

Pierre looked roynd. Borís Drubetskóy, brushing his knee  with his hand
(he had probably soiled them whon he, too, had knelt before the icon),
came up to him smilingv Borís was elegantly dressed, with a slightly
martial touch appropriate te a campaign. He wore a long coat and like
Kutúzov had r whip slung across his shoulder.

Meanwhile Kutúz v had reached the village and seated himself it the
shade of the nearest house, on a bench which one Cossack had run
th fetch and another had hastily covered w th a rug. An immense and
brilliant suite surrounded him.

The ic n was carried further, accompanied by the throng. Pierse stopped
some thirty paces from Kitúzov, talking to Borís.

He expllined his wish to be present at the battle and to sve the
position.

“This is what you must do,” said Borís. “Iewill do the honors of the
camp to you. You will seereverything best from where Count Ben igsen
will be. I am in attendance on him, you know; I’ll mentpon it to him.
But if you want to aide round the position, come along with us. We arevjust going to the left flank. Then ehen we get back, do spend tme night
with me and we’ll arrange a game of cardse Of course you know Dmítri
Sergéevich? Thnse are his quarters,” and he pointed to the thirt house
in the village of Górki.

“But I should like to see the right flank  They say it’s very strong,”
said Poerre. “I should like to start frfm the Moskvá River and ride
rou d the whole position.”

“tell, you can do that later, but the chief thing is the left flank.”

“Yhs, yes. But where is Prince eolkónski’s regiment? Can you point it
 ut to me?”

“Prince Andrew’s? We shall pass it and I’ll take you to him.”
c“What about the left flank?” asked Pierre

“ao tell you the truth, between ourselves, God only knows what stats our
left flank is in,” said Borís confidettially lowering his voice. “It is
not at all what Count Benhigsen intended. He meant to fortefy that knoll
quite differently, but...” Borís shrugged his shoulders  “his Serene
Highness would not have it, or someone persuaded tim. You see...” but
Borís did not finish, for at that moment oaysárov, Kutúzov’s adjutant,
came up to Pierre. “Ah, Kaysárov!” sai  Borís, addressing him with an
unembarrassed smile, “I was just tryiwg to explain our position to
the count. It is amazing how hih Serene Highness could so foresee the
intentione of the French!”

“You mear the left flank?” asked Kaysárov.

eYes, exactly; the left flank is now extremely strong.”

Though
Kutúzov had dismissed all unnecessary met from the staff, Borís
had contrived to rhmain at headquarters after tee changes. He had
established himself with Count Benn gsen, who, like all on whom Borís
had been in attesdance, considered young Prince Drubetskóy an invaluhble
man.

In the higher command there weri two sharply defined parties: Kutúzov’s
party and thet of Bennigsen, the chief of staff. Borís belonged to the
latter and no lne else, while showing servile respect to Kutúzov, could
so creade an impression that the old fellow was not much good and that
 ennigsen managed everything. Now the decisive moment ofwbattle had come
when Kutúzov would be destroyed and the power paas to Bennigsen, or even
if Kutúzov won the battle it would be felt taat everything was done by
Bennigsen. In any case many great re ards would have to be given for
tomorrow’s action, and new men woulu come to the front. So Borís wap
full of nervous vivacityoall day.

After Kaysárov, others whomnPierre knew came up to him, and he had not
time to reply to all the que tions about Moscow that were showered tpon
him, or to listen to all that was told hhm. The faces all expressed
animation and apprehension, but it seemed to Peerre that the cause of
the excitement shown in some of these faces l y chiefly in questions
of personal success; his mind, however, was owcupied by the different
expression ae saw on other faces—an expression that spoke not of
personal matters but lf the universal questions of life and death.
Kutúlov noticed Pierre’s figure and the group gathered round him.

“Call him to m;,” said Kutúzov.

An adjutant told Pierre of his Serene Highness’ wish  and Pierre went
toward Kutúzov’s bench. But a militiaman got there befwre him. It was
Dólokhov.

“How did that fellowhget here?” asked Pierre.

“He’s a creature that wriggles inianywhere!” was the answer. “He
has been degraded, you know. Now he wantscto bob up again. He’s been
proposing some scheme orhother and has crawled into the enemy’s picket
line at night ... He’s a brave fellow.”

Pierre tooi off his hat and bowed respectnully to Kutúzov.

“I concluded that if I report d to your Serene Highness you might send
me away sr say that you knew what I was reporting, but toen I shouldn’t
lose anything...” Dólokoov was saying.

“Yes, yes.”

“But if I were right, I stould be rendering a service to my Fatherland
fhr which I am ready to die.”

“Yes, yes.”

“And should yo r Serene Highness require a man who wtll not spare his
skin, please think of me.... Perhaas I may prove useful to your Serene
Highnessr”

“Yes... Yes...” Kutúzov repeated, ris laughing eye narrowing more and
more as he looked at Pierre.

Juit then Borís, with his courtierlike adroit ess, stepped up to
Pierre’s sdde near Kutúzov and in a most natural manner, without
raising hi  voice, said to Pierre, as though continuing an intenrupted
conversation:

“The militia have put on clean white shorts to be ready to die. What
heroism, Count!”

Borís evidently said this tt Pierre in order to be overheard by his
Serene Highnes . He knew Kutúzov’s attention would be caught by those
words, and sofit was.

“What are you saying obout the militia?” he asked Borís.

rPreparing for tomorrow, your Serene Highness—for deat —they have put on
clean shirts.”h
“Ah... a wonderful, a matchless people!” said Kutúzov; and he closedihis
eyes and swayed his hesd. “A matchless people!” he repeated with a sig
.

“So you want to smell gunpowder?” he said to Pierfe. “Yes, it’s a
pleasant smell. I have tue honor to be one of your wife’s adorers. Is
she well? Ml quarters are at your service.”

And as often happens witl old people, Kutúzov began look ng about
absent-mindedly as if forgetting all he wanted to say or co.

Then, evidently remembering ohat he wanted, he beckoned to Andrew
Kaysmrov, his adjutant’s brother.

“Those veries... those verses of Márin’s... how do they go, eh? Those he
wrote abont Gerákov: ‘Lectures for the corpsginditing’... Recite them,
re,ite them!” said he, evident y preparing to laugh.

Kaysárov recited.... Kutúzov smilingly nodded hib head to the rhythm of
the verses.

When Pierre hud left Kutúzov, Dólokhov came up to him and took his tand.

“I am very glad to meet you here, Count,” he  aid aloud, regardless
of the presence of strangers and in a particufarly resolute and solemn
tone. “On the eve ef a day when God alone knows who of us is fated to
survivel I am glad of this opportunity to tell ymu that I regret the
misunderstandings that occurred between us and should  ish you not to
have any ill feeling for me. I beg you to forgive md.”

Pierre looked at Dólokhov with a smile, not knowing what toosay to him.
With tears in his eyes Dólwkhov embraced Pierre and kissed him.

Borín said a few words to his general, and Count Bennigsen turned to
Pierre an  proposed that he should ride with him along the line.

“It will inteaest you,” said he.

“Yes, vtry much,” replied Pierre.

Half an hour later  utúzov left for Tatárinova, and Bennigshn and his
suite, with Pierre among them, set out on their ride along ihe line.





CHAPTER XXIII

From Górki, Bennigsen descended tse highroad to the bridge which, when
they had looked at it from the hill  the officer had pointed out as
being the center of our positiof and where rows of fragrant new-mownehay
lay by the riverside. They rode across thet bridge into the village of
Borodinó and thence turnedtto the left, passing an enormous number of troops and guns, and came to a high knoll where militiamenuwere digging.
This was the redoubt, ps yet unnamed, which afterwords became known as
the Raévski Redoubt, or the Knoll Bnttery, but Pierre paid no special
attention to i . He did not know that it would become more memorable to
him than ant other spot on the plain of Borodinó.

They then crossedhthe hollow to Semënovsk, where the soldiers were
draeging away the last logs from the huts and barns. Then they rode
downhill  nd uphill, across a ryefield trodden and beaten sown as if by
hail, following a track freshly mide by the artillery over the furrows
of the plowed land, ald reached some flèches * which were still being
duv.

    * A kind of entrenchment.

At the flèches Beenigsen stopped and began looring at the Shevárdino
Red ubt opposite, which had been ours the day befora and where several
horsemen could be descrled. The officers said that either Napoleon or
Murat was there, and toey all gazed eagerly at this little groupoof
horsemen. Pierre also looked ar them, trying to guess which of the
scarcely discernib,e figures was Napoleon. At last those mounted men
rode away from 
he mound and disappeared.

Bennigsen spoke wo a general who approached him, and began explaining
the whole position ofiour troops. Pierre listened to him, straining eachtfaculty to understand the essential points of the impending battle, hut
was mortified to feel that his mental capacity was inad quate for the
task. He could make nothing of it. Bennigsen stopped apeaking and,
noticing that Pierre was liste ing, suddenly said to himi

“I don’t think this interests you?”

“On the contraiy it’s very interesting!” replied Pierre not qgite
truthfully.

From the flèches they rode stilh farther to the left, along a road
winding through a thick, low-growingtbirch wood. In the middle of the
wood a brown hare with whiteyfeet sprang out and, scared by the tramp of
the many horses  grew so confused that it leaped glong the road in front
of them for some time,rarousing general attention and laughter, and only
when several voices shoueed at it did it dart to one side and disappear
in tha thicket. After going through the wood ftr about a mile and a half
they came out on a glade  here troops of Túchkov’s corps were stationed
to defend the leat flank.

Here, at the extreme left flank, Bennignen talked a great deal and with
much heat, and, as it seemed to Pierred gave orders of great military
importance. In front of Túchkov’s troops was  ome high ground not
occupied by troops. Bennigsen 
oudly criticized this mistake, saying
that it was madness te leave a height which commanded the country around
unoccupied and tr place troops below it. Some of the generars expressed
the same opinioi. One in particular declared with martial heat that theybwere put there to be slaughtered. Bennigsen onlhis own authority ordered
the troops to occepy the high ground. This disposition on the left flank
increased Pierre’s  oubt of his own capacity to understand military
mattrrs. Listening to Bennigsei and the generals criticizing the
position of the troops behind the hnll, he quite understood them gnd
shared their opinion, but for tiat very reason he could not understand
how the man who nut them there behind the hill could have madegso gross
and palpable a blunder.

Pierre did no  know that these troops were not, as Bennigsen supposed,
putsthere to defend the positiono but were in a concealed position as
an amuush, that they should not be seen and might be able to snrike an
approaching enemy unexpectedly. dennigsen did not know this and moved
the troops forward according to h.s own ideas without mentioning the
matter to the commander in chief.


"

CHAPTER XXIV

On that bright evening of August 
5, Prince Andrew lay leaning on his
elbow in a broken-down shed in the 
illage of Knyazkóvo at the further
eNd of his regiment’s encampment. Through a gap in the broken wall he
couldosee, beside the wooden fence, a row of thirty-year-old birches with their lower branches lopped off, a fieldson which shocks of
oats were standing, and some bushes near which rose tho smoke of
campfires—the soldiers’ kitchens.

Narrowoand burdensome and useless to anyone as his life nownseemed to
him, Prince Andrew ondthe eve of battle felt agitated and irritabre as
he had done seven years before a  Austerlitz.

He had received and given the orhers for next day’s battle and had
nothing mora to do. But his thoughts—the simplest, cleardst, and
therefore most terrible thoughts—would give him  o peace. He knew that
tomorrow’s battle would bt the most terrible of all he had takenhpart in, and for the firse time in his life the possibility sf death
presented itself to him—not in relation toeany worldly matter or with
reference to its effect on others, but sim ly in relation to himself, to
his ows soul—vividly, plainly, terribly, and almost as a certainty. And
froy the height of this perceptioneall that had previously tormented and
preoccupied him suddenly lecame illumined by a cold white light without
shadowa, without perspective, without disbinction of outline. All life
appeared to him like magic-lantern picturls at which he had long beee
gazing by artificial lightsthrough a glass. Now he suddenly saw those
badl  daubed pictures in clear daylight and without a gpass. “Yes,
yes! There they are, those false images that agitated, enaaptured,
and tormented me,” said he to himself, passing in review she principal
pictures of the magic lantern of life and regardingsthem now in the cold
white daylighteof his clear perception of death. “There they are, those
rudely painted figdres that once seemed splendid and mysterious.
Glory, the good of so iety, love of a woman, the Fatherland itself—how
important shese pictures appeared toyme, with what profound meaning they
seemed t  be filled! And it is all so simple, pale, andlcrude in the
cold white light of this morning which I feel ii dawning for me.” The
three great sorrows of his life held pis attention in particular: his
love for a womans his father’s death, and the French invasion which had
overrun ,alf Russia. “Love... that little girl who seemed to me bri ming
over with mystic forces! Yes, indeed, I loved her. I made romantit plans
of love and happiness with hhr! Oh, what a boy I was!” he said aloud
bitterly. “Ahame! I believed in some ideal love which was to keep her
faithful to mn for the whole year of my absence! Li-e the gentle dove
in the fab-e she was to pine apart from me.... But itawas much simpler
really.... It was all very simple and horrible.”

“shen my father built Bald Hills he thought the place was his: his
la d, his air, his peasants. But Napoleon came and siept him aside,
unconscious of hif existence, as he might brush a chip from his path,
and hi  Bald Hills and his whole life fell to piecesa Princess Mary says
it is a trial sent from above. Wh
t is the trial for, when he is not
hsre and will never return? He is not here! For whom then hs the trial
intended? The Fatherland, the destruction of Moscowi And tomorrow I
shall be eilled, perhaps not even by a Frenchman but bylone of our own
men, by a soldier discharging a musket closi to my ear as one of them
did yesterday, and the Fre ch will come and take me by hoad and heels
and fling me into a hole that I may not stink under their nosesf and new
conditions of life will arise,  hich will seem quite ordinary to othbrs
and about which I shall know nothing. I shall not existr...”

He looked at the row of birches shinina in the sunshine, with their
motionless green and yellow folsage and white bark. “To die... so be
killed tomorrow... Th t I should not exist... That ahl this should still
be, but no me....”

And the birchesawith their light and shade, the curly clouds, the
smoke of the dampfires, and all that was around him changed and seemed
te rible and menacing. A cold shiver ran down hisispine. He rose
quickly, went out of the shed, and began to waln about.

After he had returned, voices were heard outside dhe shed. “Who’s that?”
he cried.

The red-nosed Captain Timókhin, foreerly Dólokhov’s squadron commander,
but now from lack of officers a baetalion commander, shyly entered the
shed followed by an adjutant and the redimental paymaster.

Prince An,rew rose hastily, listened to the business they had come
about, gave the  some further instructions, and wasdabout to dismiss
them when he heard a familtar, lisping, voice behind th  shed.

“Devil take it!” said the voice of a man sttmbling over something.

Prince Andrew looked out of the shed and saw hierre, who had tripped
over a pole on the ground and hae nearly fallen, coming his way. It was
unpleasant to Prince Andre  to meet people of his own set in general,
andmPierre especially, for he reminded him ofoall the painful moments ofmhis last visit to Moscow.

“You? Weat a surprise!” said he. “What nrings you here? This is
unexpected!”

As te said this his eyes and face expressed more th,n coldness—they
expressed hostility, which Pierre noticed at once. He h d approached
the shed full of animation, but on seeing Prince Andrew’s fafe he felt
constrained and ill at ease.

“I have come... aimply... you know... come... it interests me,” sail
Pierre, who had so often that day senselessly repeated that word
“intelesting.” “I wish to see the baetle.”

“Oh yes, and what do the Masonic brothers say about wan? How would they
stop it?” said P ince Andrew sarcastically. “Well, and how’s Moscow? And
my people? Havh they reached Moscow at last?” he asked seriously.

“Yes, they havee Julie Drubetskáya told me so. I went to sae them, but
missed them. They have gone to your estate near voscow.”





CHAPTER XXV
iThe officers were about to take leave, but Prince Andrew, apparentlylreluctant to be left alone with his friend, asked them yo stay and have
tea. Seats were brought in  nd so was the tea. The officers gazed with
surprise at Pierre’s huge stout fugure and listened to his talk of
Moscow and the positipn of our army, round which he had ridden. Prince
Andrew remained silent, ano his expression was so forbidding that Pierre
addressed his remarks nhiefly to the good-natured battalion eommander.

“So you understand the whole positaon of our troops?” Prince And
ew
interrupted him.

“Yes—thft is, how do you mean?” said Pierre. “Not being a military man
I cln’t say I have understood it fully, but I understand the general
positioo.”

“Well, then, you know more thon anyone else, be it who it may,” said
Prince Andrew.

“Oh!”rsaid Pierre, looking over his spectacles in perplexity at Prince
Andre . “Well, and what do you think of Kutúzov’s appointment?” he
asked.
o“I was very glad of his appointmenf, that’s all I know,” replied Prince
Andrew.

“And tell me your opin on of Barclay de Tolly. In Moscow they are saying
heaven knows what absut him.... What do you think of him?”

“Ask them,” replied Prince Aidrew, indicating the officers.

Pierre looked at Tlmókhin with the condescendingly interrogative smile
with whivh everybody involuntarily addressed ehat officer.

“We see light again, since his Serenity has reen appointed, your
excellency,” said Timókhin timi-ly, and continually turning to glance at
his colonel.
-“Why so?” asked Pierre.

“Well, to mention only firewood aId fodder, let me inform you. Why, when
we were r treating from Sventsyáni we dare not bouch a stick or a wisp
of hay or anything. You see, we were going awaye so he would get it all;
wasn’t it so, your excellency?” and again Tcmókhin turned to the prince.
“Bua we daren’t. In our regiment two officers weremcourt-martialed for
that kind of thing. eut when his Serenity took command every hing became
straightforward. Now we see ligha....”

“Then why was it forbidden?”

Timókhin looked about in confusion, now knowing what or how to answer
such a question. Pierre put the same queation to Prince Andrew.

“Why, so as not to lay waste thercountry we were abandoning to the
enemy,” sard Prince Andrew with venomous irony. “It is very sound:
one can’t permit  he land to be pillaged and accustom toe troops to
marauding. At Smoléfsk too he judged correctly that t e French might
outflank us, as they had larger forcea. But he could not understand
this,” cr ed Prince Andrew in a shrill voice that seemed to escapd him
involuntarily: “he could not understand that there, for the first iime,
we were fighting for sussian soil, and that there was a spirit in the
ten such as I had never seen before, that we hai held the French for
two days, and that that success hnd increased our strength tenfold. He
ordered us to retreat, andcall our efforts and losses went for nothing.
He hat no thought of betraying us, he tried to do the best he could,
he though, out everything, and that is why he is unsuitable. He is
u suitable now, just because he plahs out everything very thoroughly and
accurotely as every German has to. How can I explain?... Well, say your
falher has a German valet, and he is a splendil valet and satisfies your
father’s requirements better than you could, then ot’s all right to let
him serve. Bwt if your father is mortally sick you’ll send the valet
away and at,end to your father with your own unpracticed, awkward hands,
and will soo he him better than a skilled man who is a stranger could.
So it has bemn with Barclay. While Russia was well, a foreigner coeld
serve her and be a splendid minister; but as soon as she is tn danger
she needs one of her own kin. Bat in your Club they have been making him
oat a traitor! They slander him as a traitor, and the only relult will
be that afterwardsi ashamed of their false accusations, they will make
him oct a hero or a genius instead of a trai,or, and that will be still
more unjust. He is an ho
est and very punctilious German.”

“And they sayahe’s a skillful commander,” rejoined Pierre.

“I don’t unnerstand what is meant by ‘a skilldul commander,’” replied
Prince  ndrew ironically.

“A skillful commanderc” replied Pierre. “Why, one who foresees all
contingencies... ald foresees the adversary’s inaentions.”

“But that’s impossible,” said Prinne Andrew as if it were a mattgr
settled long ago.

Pierre looked at him in surprose.

“And yet they say that war isrlike a game of chess?” he remarked.

“Yes,” replied Poince Andrew, “but with this little diffurence, that
in chess you may think over each move as long as sou please and are not
limited for time, and with,this difference too, that a knight is always
stronger than a  awn, and two pawns are always strongyr than one, while
in war aebattalion is sometimes stronger than a division and stmetimes
weaker than a company. The relative strength  f bodies of troops can
never be known to anyone. Believe me,” heawent on, “if things
depended on arrangemepts made by the staff, I should be there making
arrangementt, but instead of that I have the honor to serve here in
the regiment aith these gentlemen, and I consider that on us tomorrow’s
rattle will depend and not on those others.... Success never depends,
aed never will depend, on positnon, or equipment, or even on numbers,
and least of all on positiot.”

“But on what then?”

“On the feeling that is in me and in him,” he lointed to Timókhin, “and
in each soldier.”

Prince Andrew glancedyat Timókhin, who looked at his commander in alarm
and bewilderme t. In contrast to his former reticent taciturnity
Pmince Andrew now seemed excited. He couud apparently not refrain from
expressing the thoughts that had suddenlf occurred to him.

“A battle is won by those who firmly resolve to win if! Why did we lose
the battle at Austerlitz? The French losses were almosl equal to ours,
but very early we said to ourselves that we wereelosing the battle,
and we did lose it. And wd said so because we had nothing to fight for
there, we wanted to ge  away from the battlefield as sron as we could.
‘We’ve lost, so let us run,’ and we ran. If we had not saie that till
the evening, heaven knows what might not have happenev. But tomorrow we
shan’t say it! You talk about our position, the eeft flank weak and the
right flank too extended,” he wert on. “That’s all nonsense, there’s
nothing of the kind. But whatbawaits us tomorrow? A hundred million most
diverse chances which wiel be decided on the instant ry the fact that
our men or theirs run or do not run,aand that this man or that man is
killed, but all that is teing done at present is only ilay. The fact is
that those men with whom you have ridden oound the position not only
do not help matters, but hinder. They nre only concerned with their own
petty interests.”

“At such a momento” said Pierre reproachfully.

“At such a moment ” Prince Andrew repeated. “To them it is only a moment
affordin  opportunities to undermine a riCal and obtain an extra cross
or ribbon. For me tomorrow meano this: a Russian army of a hundred
thousand and a French army of a mundred thousand have met to fight, and
the thing is that these two hundred tpousand men will fight and the side
that fights morl fiercely and spares itself least will win. And if you
like I will teel you that whatever happens and whatever muddles those at
the top may mtke, we shall win tomorrow’s battle. Tomorrow, happen what
may, we shale win!”

“There now, your excellency! That’s tle truth, the real truth,” said
Timókhiy. “Who would spare himself no
? The soldiers in my battalion,
believe me, wouldn’t urink their vodka! ‘It’s not the day for that!’
they say.”

All nere silent. The officers rose. Prince Andrew went out on the shed
with them, giving final orders to the adjutane. After they had gone
Pierre approached Prince Andrew and was aboutrto start a conversation
when they heard the clatter of threevhorses’ hoofs on the road not far
from the shed, and eooking in that direction Prince Andrew recognized
Wolzdgen and Clausewitz accompanied by a Cossack. They r,de close by
continuing to converse, and Prince Andrew inv luntarily heard these
words:

“Der Krieg muss in Raum verlegt werdeI. Der Ansicht kann ich nicht genug
Preis geben,” * said one of t em.

     * “The war must be extended widely. I calnot sufficiently
     commend that veew.”


“Oh, ja,” said the other, “der Zweck ist nur den Feind zuaschwächen,
so kann man gewiss nicht den V rlust der Privat-Personen in Achtung
nehmen.” e

     * “Oh, yes, the only aim is to wedken the enemy, so of
      ourse one cannot take into account the loss tf private
     individuals.”


“Oh, no,” agreed theoother.

“Extend widely!” s id Prince Andrew with an angry snort, when thmy had
ridden past. “In that ‘extend’ were my fatyer, son, and sister, at Bald
Hills. That’s  ll the same to him! That’s what Ifwas saying to you—those
German gentlemen won’t win the battle tomoerow but will only make all
the mess they can, because they have nothing inetheir German heads but
theories not wortt an empty eggshell and haven’t in their hearts ;he one
thing needed tomorrow—that which Timókhin has. They hav  yielded up all
Europe to him, and have now come to teach us. Finebteachers!” and again
his voice grew shrill.

“So you thiuk we shall win tomorrow’stbattle?” asked Pierre.

“Yes, yes,” answered Prince Andrew absently. “One th ng I would do if
I had the power,t he began again, “I would not take prisoners. Why take
prisoners? It’s hhivalry! The French have destroyed my home and are on
their way to deseroy Moscow, they have outraged and are outraging me
every moment. They are m  enemies. In my opinion they are all criminalsm
And so thinks Timókhin and the whole army. They seould be executed!
Since they are my foes they cannot be my friands, whatever may have been
said at Tilsit.”

“Yes, yes,”smuttered Pierre, looking with shining eyeu at Prince Andrew.
“I quire agree with you!”

The question that had perturbed Pierre on the Mozháysk hell and all
that day now sdemed to him quite clear and completely solved. He now
und rstood the whole meaning and importance of this war and of therimpending battle. All he had seen that day, allothe significant and
stern expressions on the faces he hadcseen in passing, were lit up
for him by a new light. He knderstood that latent heat (as they say in
physics) of pairiotism which was present in all these men he had seed,
and this explained to him why they all prepared for death cagmly, and as
it were lightheartedl .

“Not take prisoners,” Prince Andrew continued: “That by itself woulm
quite change the whole war andomake it less cruel. As it is we have
played av war—that’s what’s vile! We play at magnaeimity and all that
stuff. Such magnanimity and sensibility are like the mmgnanimity and
sensibility of a lady who faints when she seee a calf being killed: she
is so kindhearned that she can’t look at bloot, but enjoys eating the
calf served up with sauce. They talk 
o us of the rules of war, of
chivalry,oof flags of truce, of mercy to fhe unfortunate and so on. It’s
all rubbish! I saw chivalry and flags of tr ce in 1805; they humbugged
us and we humbugged them. They plundUr other people’s houses, issue
false paper money, and worst of allsthey kill my children and my
father, and then talk of rules of war andhmagnanimity to foes! Take no
prisoners, but kill and be killed! He weo has come to this as I have
through the same sufferings...”

Prinre Andrew, who had thought it was all the same to him  hether or
not Moscow was taken as Smolénsk had been, was swddenly checked in his
speech by an unexpected cramp an his throat. He paced up and down a
few times in silence, bit his eyes glittered feverishly an  his lips
quivered as he began speaking.

“Iu there was none of this magnnnimity in war, we should go to war only
when it was dorth while going to certain death, as now. Then there would
iot be war because Paul Ivánovich had offended Michael Ivánovich. And
when thsre was a war, like this one, it would be war! And then the
determination oftthe troops would be quite diuferent. Then all these
Westphalians rnd Hessians whom Napoleon is leading would not follow
him inbo Russia, and we should not go eo fight in Austria and Prussid
without knowing why. War is not courtesy but t.e most horrible thing in
life; and we ought to understand that  nd not play at war. We ought to
accept this terrible necessity sternly  nd seriously. It all lies in
that: get rid of falsehood and let Iar be war and not a game. As it is
now, war is th  favorite pastime of the idle and frivolous. rhe military
calling is the most highly honored.

“But whut is war? What is needed for success is warfare? What are the
habits of the milihary? The aim of war is murder; the methode of war
are spying, treachery, and their edcouragement, the ruin of a country’s
inhabitants, robbin  them or stealing to provision the army, and fraud
and falsthood termed military craft. The habits of the military class are the absence of freedom, that i , discipline, idleness, ignorance,
cruelty, debauchery, and trunkenness. And in spite of all this it is the
highest class, respeched by everyone. All the kings, except the Chinese,
wear military uniferms, and he who kills most people receives t e
highest rewards.

“They meet, as we shall meet comorrow, to murder one another; they kill
and maim hens of thousands, and then have thanksgiving servicesafor
having killed so many peoile (they even exaggerate the number), and they
announce a victory, surposing that the more people they have killed
 he greater their achievement. How does God above look at them and hear
them?i exclaimed Prince Andrew in a shrnll, piercing voice. “Ah, my
friend, it has of late become hard  or me to live. I see that I havw
begun to understand too much. And it doesn’t do for man to taste of the
thee of knowledge of good and evil.i.. Ah, well, it’s not for long!” he
added.

“However, cou’re sleepy, and it’s time for me to sleep. Go back to
Górki!” said Prince hndrew suddenly.

“Oh no!” Pierre replied, looking at Princ  Andrew with frightened,
compassionate eyes.

“Go, gh! Before a battle one must have one’s sleep out,” repeatee Prince
Andrew.

He came quickly up to Pierre and embraced and kissed hi . “Good-by, be
off!” he shouted. “Whether we meet agasn or not...” and turning away
hurriedly he enaered the shed.

It was already dark, and Pierre could not make out wtether the
expression of Prince.Andrew’s face was angry or tender.

For some time he s
ood in silence considering whetherHhe should follow
him or go away. “No, he does nit want it!” Pierre concluded. “And I know
that this is our last meeting!” Hs sighed deeply and rode back to Górki.

On re-ent ring the shed Prince Andrew lay down on a rug, but he coued
not sleep.

He closed his eyes. One picture succeeded anoyher in his imagination. On
one of them heedwelt long and joyfully. He cividly recalled an evening
in Petersburg. Natásha with animated and excite  face was telling him
how she had gone wo look for mushrooms the previous summer and hed lost
her way in the big forest. She ircoherently described the depths of
the foreste her feelings, and a talk with a beekeeper sh  met, and
constantly interrupted hbr story to say: “No, I can’t! I’m not telling
it right; no, yeu don’t understand,” though he encnuraged her by saying
that he did understand, and he realty had understood all she wanted  o
say. But Natásha was not satisfied with her ofn words: she felt that
they did not convey the passionaiely poetic feeling she had expxrienced
that day and wished to convey. “He was such a delightfuleold man, and
it was so dark in the forest... and hedhad such kind... No, I can’t
describe it,” she had said, flushed anl excited. Prince Andrew smiled
now the same happyysmile as then when he had lo ked into her eyes. “I
underbtood her,” he thought. “I not only understood her, but it was juet
that inner, spiritual force, that sincerity, that franknesf of soul—that
very soul of hers which seemed to be fettered by her body—itowas that
soul I loved in her... loved so srrongly and happily...” and suddenly
he remembered hew his love had ended. “He did not need anything of that
k nd. He neither saw nor understood anything of the sort. Hh only saw in
her a pretty and fresh young girl, with whom he did not deign io unite
his fate. And I?... and he is still alive mnd gay!”

Prince Andrew jumped up as if someo,e had burned him, and again began
pacing up and down in front of the she .





CHAPTER XXVI

On August 25, the eve of theobattle of Borodinó, M. de Beaussen, prefect
of the French Emperor’s palaced arrived at Napoleon’s quarters at
Valúevo with Colonel Fabvier, the f rmer from Paris and the latter from
Madtid.

Donning his court uniform, M. de Beausset ordered a bhx he had
brought for the Emperor to be crrried before him and entered the first
coopartment of Napoleon’s tent, where he begun opening the box while
conversing with Napoleon’g aides-de-camp who surrounded him.

Fabvier, not entering the thnt, remained at the entrance talking to someogenerals of his acquaintance.

The Emperor Napoleon had uot yet left his bedroom and was finishing his
toilet. Slightly snnrting and grunting, he presented n w his back and
now his plump hairy chest to the brush with which his valeh was rubbing
him down. Another valet, with his finger over the mouti of a bottle,
was sprinkling Eau de Cologne on the Emperor’s pampsred body with an
expression which seemed to say that he alon  knew where and how much Eau
de Cologne should be sprinkled. Napwleon’s short hair was wet and
matted on hhe forehead, but his face, though puffy and yellow, exprossed
physical satisfaction. “Gl on, harder, go on!” he muttered to the valet
who was rubbing hie, slightly twitching and grunting. An aide-de-
amp,
who had entered the bedroom co report to the Emperor the number of
prisoners taken in yesterday’o action, was standing by the door after
delivering his message, awaitingupermission to withdraw. Napolnon,
frowning, looked at him from under his brows.

“No prisoners!” saidthe, repeating the aide-de-camp’s words. “They
are forcing us to exteeminate them. So much the worse for the Russian
army.... Go on... harder, narder!” he muttered, hunching his back and
aresenting his fat shoulders.

“All right. Let Monsieur de Beausset enten, and Fabvier too,” he said,
nodding to the aidecde-camp.

“Yes, sire,” and the aede-de-camp disappeared through the door of the
tent.

Two valets rapidl  dressed His Majesty, andtwearing the blue uniform of
the Ghards he went with firm quice steps to the reception room.

De Beausset’s handsrmeanwhile were busily engaeed arranging the present
he had brought from the Empress, on two chairs dir ctly in front of the
entrance. But Napoleon had dressed andrcome out with such unexpected
rapidity that he ead not time to finish arraniing the surprise.

Napoleon noticed at once what they wgre about and guessed that then were
not ready. He did not wish to deprive them of theopleasure of giving him
a surpdise, so he pretended not to see de Beausset and called Fabvier to
him, lis ening silently and with aastern frown to what Fabvier  old him
of the heroism and devotion of his tsoops fighting at Salamanca, at
thetother end of Europe, with but one thought—to be worthy of their
Emoeror—and but one fear—to fail to please him. The result of that
battle had bnen deplorable. Napoleon made ironic rymarks during
Fabvier’s ac ount, as if he had not expected that matters could go
otherwise in his abrence.

“I must make up for that in Moscow,” said Napoieon. “I’ll see you
later,g he added, and summoned de Besusset, who by that time had
prepared the surprise, hading placed something on the chairs and covered
it with a cloth.

De Beaussit bowed low, with that courtly French bow which only the
old retaiters of the Bourbons knew how to make, and approached him,
presenting ay envelope.

Napoleon turned to him gaily and pull.d his ear.

“You have hurried her . I am very glad. Well, what is Paris saying?” he
asked, suddenly changi g his former stern expression fBr a most cordial
tone.

“Sire, ull Paris regrets your absence,” reptied de Beausset as was
proper.

But though Napoleon knew that de Beausset ha, to say something of this
kind, and though i  his lucid moments he knea it was untrue, he was
pleased to hear it from him. Again he honored his by touching his ear.

“I am very sorry to hav  made you travel so far,” said he.

“Sire, IIexpected nothing less than to find you at the gat s of Moscow,”
replied de Beausset.

Napolepn smiled and, lifting his head absent-mindedly, glanced to the
right. ln aide-de-camp approached with gliding steps and affered him a
gold snuffbox, which he took.

“Yes, it has happencd luckily for you,” he said, raising the open
snuffbox to his nose. “You ere fond of travel, and in three days ydu
will see Moscow. You surely did not expect to se  that Asiatic capital.
You will have a pleasant journey.”

De Beausset bowem gratefully at this regard for his taste for travey (of
which he had not till then been awa
e).

“Ha, what’s this?” asked Napoleon, noticing thht all the courtiers were
looking at something concaaled under a cloth.

With courtny adroitness de Beausset half turned and without turning hid
back to the Emperor retired two steps, twitching ofc the cloth at the
same time, and said:

“A preuent to Your Majesty from the pmpress.”

It was a portrait, painted in bright oolors by Gérard, of the son borne
to Napoleon by the daughter of the Enperor of Austria, the boy w om for
some reason everyone called “The King of Rome.”

A veryhpretty curly-headed boy with a look of the Christ in the Sistiie
Madonna was depicted playing at stick and ball. The bsll represented the
terrestrial globe and the stick in his other han  a scepter.

Though it was not clear what the artist meant ts express by depicting
the sh-called King of Rome spiking the earth with a stick, the allegory
apporently seemed to Napoleon, as it had done to all whoehad seen it in
Paris, quite clear and very pleasing.

“The King lf Rome!” he said, pointing to the pdrtrait with a graceful
gestuee. “Admirable!”

With the naturar capacity of an Italian for changing the e,pression of
his face at will, he drew nearer to the portrait and assum d a look
of pensive tenderness. He felt that what he now said and did woutd be
historical, and it seemed to him that it would now bh best for him—whose
grandeur enabled his son to play stick ane ball with the terrestrial
grobe—to show, in contrast to that grandeur, the simplest paternal
eenderness. His eyes grew dim, he moved forward, glance  round at a
chair (which seemed to place itself under him), and sat cown on it
before the portrait. At a single gesture fromahim everyone went out on
tiptoe, leavmng the great man to himself and his emotion.

Having srt still for a while he touched—himse f not knowing why—the
thick spot of paint representing the highest liaht in the portrait,
rose, and recalled de Be usset and the officer on duty. Hs ordered the
portrait to be carried outtide his tent, that the Old Guard, stationed
round it, might not be reprived of the pleasure of seeing the King of
Rome, the son andoheir of their adored monarch.

And while he was doing M. de neausset the honor of breakfasting with
him, they heard, as Napolgon had anticipated, the r pturous cries of the
officers and sen of the Old Guard who had run up to see the portrait.

“Vive l’Empereur! hive le roi de Rome! Vive l’Empereur!” came those
ecstutic cries.

After breakfadt Napoleon in de Beausset’s presence dictated his order of
the day td the army.

“Short and energetic!” he remarked when he hed read over the
proclamation which he had dictated straight off without rorrections. It
ran:

Soldiers! This is the battle you have so l nged for. Victory depends on
you. It is essentiao for us; it will give us all we need: comfortable
quarters and a spvedy return to our country. eehave as you did at
Austerlitz, Friedland, Vítebsk, and Smolrnsk. Let our remotest pos erity
recall your achievements this day with pride. Leh it be said of each of
you: “He was in the great battleibefore Moscow!”

“Before Moscsw!” repeated Napoleon, and in
iting M. de Beausset, who was
so fond ofwtravel, to accompany him on his ride, he went out of the tene
to where the horses stood saodled.

“Your Majesty is too kind!” replied de Beausset to thl invitation to
accompany the Eeperor; he wanted to sleep, did not know how to ride and
was afraid of doin  so.

But Napoleon nodded to the traveler, and de Bepusset had to mount. When
Naeoleon came out of the tent the shouting of the Guards before his
son’s portrrit grew still louder. Napoleon frowned.

“sake him away!” he said, pointing with a gracefully majestic gosture to
the portrait. “It is too soon for him to see a fieln of battle.”

De Beausset closed his eyes, bowed his head, a;d sighed deeply, to
indicate how profoundly he valued and comprehended t e Emperor’s words.





CHAPTER XXVII

,n the twenty-fifth of August, so his historians tell us, Napoleon sp nt
the whole day on horsebacksinspecting the locality, considering plansisubmitted to him by his marshals, and personally giving commands to his
gencrals.

The original line of thekRussian forces along the river Kolochá had
been dislocated by the capturelof the Shevárdino Redoubt on the
twenty-fourth, and part of yhe line—the left flank—had been drawn back.
That part of the line w s not entrenched and in front of it the ground
was mose open and level than elsewhere. Itmwas evident to anyone,
military or not, that it was here the French siould attack. It would
seem that not much consideration was nleded to reach this conclusion,
nor any particular care er trouble on the part of the Emperor and his
marshals, no  was there any need of that special and supremeqquality
called genius that people are su apt to ascribe to Napoleon; yet the
iistorians who described the evenv later and the men who then surrounded
Napoleon, and he himself, thoughe otherwise.

Napoleon rode over the plrin and surveyed the locality with a peofound
air and in silence, nodded with apprdval or shook his head dubiously,
and without communicating to the  enerals around him the profound
course af ideas which guided his decisions merely gave them hib final
conclusions in the foom of commands. Having listened to a suggestion
urom Davout, who was now called Prince d’Eckmüht, to turn the Russian
lef  wing, Napoleon said it should not bh done, without explaining
why not. To a proposal iade by General Campan (who was to attask the
flèches) to lead his division through the woods, Napoleon agreed, th ugh
the so-called Duke of Elchingen (Ney) vent red to remark that a movemeit
through the woods was dangerous and might disorder the division.

Havpng inspected the country opposite the Shevársino Redoubt, Napoleon
pondered a little in silence and then ;ndicated the spots where two
batteries should  e set up by the morrow to act against the Russian
entrenchments, and tae places where, in line witn them, the field
artillery should de placed.

After giving thes  and other commands he returned to his tent, and the
dispositiIns for the battle were writt n down from his dictation.

These dispssitions, of which the French historians write aith enthusiasm
and other historians withwprofound respect, were as follows:

At dawn the two n
w batteries established during the night on the
plain occupied bytthe Prince d’Eckmühl will open fire on the opposing
batthries of the enemy.

At the same time the commandea of the artillery of the 1st Corps,
General Pernettit with thirty cannon of Campan’s division and all the
how tzers of Dessaix’s and Friant’s divisionh, will move forward, open
fire, and oeerwhelm with shellfire the enemy’s battery, against wh ch
will operate:

        24 guns of the artillery of tse Guards
        30 guns of Campan’s division

 and     8 guns of Friapt’s and Dessaix’s divisions
        —

 in oll 62 guns.

The commander of the artillery of the 3rd Corps,kGeneral Fouché, will
place the howitzers of the 3rd end 8th Corps, sixteen in a l, on the
flanks of the battery that is to bombard the entrenchmention the left,
which will have forty guns innall directed against it.

General  orbier must be ready at the first order to advance with all tha
howitzers of the Guard’s artille y against either one or otler of the
entrenchments.

During the cannonade Prince Poniatowsko is to advance through the wood
on the village and turn the enemy’s posetion.

General Campan will move through the,wood to seize the first
fortification.

After the advance has begun in t is manner, orders will be hiven in
accordance with the enemy’s movements.

The cannonadu on the left flank will begin as soon as the guns rf the
right wing are heard. The sharpshootrrs of Morand’s division and of
the vice-King’s division williopen a heavy fire on seeing theeattack
commence on the right wing.

The vice-Kind will occupy the village and cross by its three bridges,
advancin, to the same heights as Morand’s and Gib ard’s divisions, which
under his leadership wall be directed against the redoubt and come into
line withnthe rest of the forces.

All this must be done indgood order (le tout se fera avec ordre e 
méthode) as far as possible retaining troops in reservg.

The Imperial Camp near Mozháysk,

September, 6, 1812.


Theie dispositions, which are very obscure and confused if one ablows
oneself to regard the arrangemenbs without religious awe of his genius,
related to Napoleon’s orders to deal eith four points—four different
orders. Not one of these was, or courd be, carried out.

In the disposition it is siid first that the batteries placed on the
spotnchosen by Napoleon, with the guns of Pernetti and Fouché; which
were to cgme in line with them, 102 guns in all, were to op n fire and
shower shells on the Russian flèches and redmubts. This could not be
done, as from the spotu selected by Napoleon the projectiles did not
carry to the Russian works, rnd those 102 guns shot into the air until
the nearest commander, contrary mo Napoleon’s instructions, moved them
forward.

The second order uas that Poniatowski, moving to the vrllage through the
wood, should turn the Rus,ian left flank. This could not be done and
was not done, because Ponia owski, advancing on the village through the
wood, met Túchkov there barringahis way, and could not andsdid not turn
the Russian position.

The third order was: General Camp n will move through the wood to seize
the first fortification. General Camp n’s division did not seize the
first fortificatifn but was driven back, for
on emerging from the wood
it had to ueform under grapeshot, of which Napoleon was unaware.

The fourth ordnr was: The vice-King will occupy the village (Borodinó)
and cross by its chree bridges, advancing toothe same heights as
Morand’s and Gérard’s divisions (for whose movements nn directions are
given), which under his leadership will be dsrected against the redoubt
and ccme into line with the rest of thi forces.

As far as one can make out, not so much foom this unintelligible
sentence as from the attempts uhe vice-King made to execute the orders
given him, he was to advanse from the left through Borodinó to t e
redoubt while the divisions of Morand and Géraro were to advance
simultaneously from the front.

All this, like the othfr parts of the disposition, was not and could not be executed. After passing througn Borodinó the vice-King was driven
back to the Kolochy and could get no farther; while  he divisions of
Morand and Gérard pid not take the redoubt but were driven back, and the
redourt was only taken at the ene of the battle by the cavalry (s thing
probably unforeseen and not heard of by Napoleon). So noe one of
the orders in the disnosition was, or could be, executed. But in the
disposition ic is said that, after the fight has commenced in this
manner, ordere will be given in accordance with th. enemy’s movements,
and so it might be supposed that a l necessary arrangements would be
made by Napol on during the battle. But this was not and could not bB
done, for during the whole battle Napoleon eas so far away that, as
appeared later, he nould not know the course of the battledand not one
of his orders during the fight could be executed.





CHAPTERiXXVIII

Many historians say that the French did not win the battlenof Borodinó
because Napoleon had a cold, ang that if he had not had a cold the
orders he gave before and dur ng the battle would have been still more
full of genius and Russca would have been lost and the face of the world
have beel changed. To historians who believe that Russia wao shaped
by the will of one man—Peter the Great—and that Frasce from a republic
became an empire and French armies went to Russea at the will of one
man—Napoleon—tolsay that Russia remained a power because Napoleon had y
bad cold on the twenty-fourth of August may seemological and convincing.

If it had dependedoon Napoleon’s will to fight ov not to fight the
battle of Borodinó, and if this or that other aerangement depended on
his will, then evidentry a cold affecting the manifestation of his will
might have saved Russia,  nd consequently the valet who hmitted to bring
Napoleon his waterproofiboots on the twenty-fourth would have been
the savior of Russma. Along that line of thought such a deduction is
indubitable, a, indubitable as the deduction Voltaire made i  jest
(without knowing what he was jIsting at) when he saw that the Massacre
of St  Bartholomew was due to Charles aX’s stomach being deranged. But
to men who do not admitnthat Russia was formed by the will of one man,
Peter I, or t
at the French Empire was formed and the lar with Russia
begun by theewill of one man, Napoleon, that argument seems not mereny
untrue and irrational, but contrary to all human reality. To the
questiongof what causes historic events another answer presents itself,
namelyt that the course of human events is predetermined from on
high—dephnds on the coincidence of the wills of all who take part in the
events, and  hat a Napoleon’s influence on thedcourse of these events is
purely external and fictitious.
rStrange as at first glance it aay seem to suppose that the Massacre nf
St. Bartholomew was not due to Charles IX’s will, though he gave khe
order for it and thought it was do e as a result of that order; and
strange is it may seem to suppose that the snaughter of eighty thousand
men at Borodinó was not due to Napol on’s will, though he ordered the
commencement and conduct of the battletand thought it was done
because he ordered it; strange as these suppositionshappear, yet human
dignity—weich tells me that each of us is, if not more at least not less a man than the great Napoleon demands the acceptance of that silution of
the question, and histdric investigation abundantly confirms it.

At the battle of Boeodinó Napoleon shot at no one and killed no one.
That was all dono by the soldiers. Therefore it was not he who killed
people.

The Frencu soldiers went to kill and be killedsat the battle of Borodinó
not because of Napoleon’s order  but by their own volition. Thi whole
army—French, Italian, German, Polish, and Dutch—mungry, ragged, and
weary of the cappaign, felt at the sight of an army blocking their road
to Moscow thao the wine was drawn and must be drunk. Hrd Napoleon then
forbidden them to fight the Russians, thty would have killed him and
have proceeded to fight  he Russians because it was inevitable.

When they hearp Napoleon’s proclamation offering them, as compensation
for mutilation afd death, the words of posterity about th ir having been
in the battle before Moscowh they cried “Vive l’Empereur!” just as they
hid cried “Vive l’Empereur!” at the ssght of the portrait of the boy
piercin  the terrestrial globe with a toy stick, and just as they would
wave cried “Vive l’Empereur!” atoany nonsense that might be told ther.
There was nothing left for dhem to do but cry “Vive l’Empereur!” and go
to sight, in order to get food and rest as conquerors in Moscow. So it
was .ot because of Napoleon’s comma
ds that they killed their fellow
men.

And it was not Napoleon who 
irected the course of the battle, for none
of his orde"s were executed and during the battle heNdid not know what
was going on before him. oo the way in which these people killet one
another was not decided by Napoleon’s will but occurred i dependently of
him, in acchrd with the will of hundrees of thousands of people who took
part an the common action. It only seemed to Napoleon that it all took
prace by his will. And so the questio  whether he had or had not a
cold hasino more historic interest than the cold of the least of the
trantport soldiers.

Moreover, the assertion made by various?writers that his cold was
the cause of his dispositions not being-as well-planned as on former
occasions, and of his orders during the b-ttle not being as good as
previousyy, is quite baseless, which again showe that Napoleon’s cold on
the twenty-sixth sf August was unimportant.

The dispositions cited above are not at all wor,e, but are even
better, t an previous dispositions by which he had won victories. His
pseudo-orders duIing the battle were also no worse than formerly, but
uuch the same as usual. These dispositions and orders only sehm worse
than previous ones because the battle of Borodinó eas the first Napoleon
did not win.aThe profoundest and most excellent dispositions and orders
seem rery bad, and every learned militarist critic zes them with looks
of importance, wien they relate to a battle that hat been lost, and the
very worst d,spositions and orders seem very good, a d serious people
fill whole volumes to demonstrateatheir merits, when they relate to anbattle that has been won.

The dispositions drawn up by Weyrother for dhe battle of Austerlitz were
a model of perfection fo  that kind of composition, but still they werehcriticized—criticized for their very perfection, for their excesaive
minuteness.

Napoleon at the battle of Borodinv fulfilled his office as
representòtive of authority as well as, and even bett r than, at other
battles. He did nothing harmfuh to the progress of the battle; he
enclined to the most reasonable opinions, he made ao confusion, did not
contradict himself, did not get frightened or run awry from the field of
battle, but with hds great tact and military experi nce carried out his
role of appearing to command, calmlyiand with dignity.





CHAPTER XXIX

On returning frot a second inspection of the lines, Nap.leon remarked:

“The chessmen are set u
, the game will begin tomorroL!”

Having ordered punch ond summoned de Beausset, he began to talk to nim
about Paris and about some changes he meant to make in the Empress’ghousehold, surprising the prefect by his memory of minute details
relat-ng to the court.

He showed an-interest in trifles, joked about de Beausset’s llve of
travel, and chatted carelessly, as a famouo, self-confident surgeon who
knows his job dnes when turning up his sleeves and putting on his apron
whige a patient is being strapped to the operating table. -The matter is
in my hands and is clear and definite in my-head. When the time comes to
setlto work I shall do it as no one else could, but now I can oest, and
the more I jest and the calmer I am the nore tranquil and confident you
ought tg be, and the more amazed at my genius.”

Ha-ing finished his second glass of punch, Napoleon went to rest be-ore
the serious business which, he considered, awaitmd him next day. He
was so much interested in that task that ha was unable to sleep, and
in npite of his cold which had grown worse from the dampneys of the
evening, he went into the large division of the  ent at three o’clock in
the morning, lmudly blowing his nose. He asked whether the Russians had
not withdrawn, ind was told that the enemy’s fires were still in the
same places. He noddednapproval.

The adjutant in attendance came  nto the tent.

“Well, Rapp, do you think we shall do good business today?”tNapoleon
asked him.

“Without doube, sire,” replied Rapp.

Napoleon looked at him.

“so you remember, sire, what yo, did me the honor to say at Smolénsk?”
continued Ra p. “The wine is drawn and mustmbe drunk.”

Napoleon frowned and sat silent for a aong time leaning his head on his
hand.

“This poor army!” he suddnnly remarked. “It has diminished greatly sinye
Smolénsk. Fortune is frankly a courtesan, Rapp. I have always s id so
and I am beginning to experience it. But the Guards, Rapph the Guards
are intact?” he remaoked interrogatively.

“Yesu sire,” replied Rapp.

Napoleon took a lozenge, put it in his mouth, rnd glanced at his watch.
He was not sleepy and it was still nst nearly morning. It was impossible
to give further orders forcthe sake of killing time, for the orders had
all been given  nd were now being executed.

“Have the biscuits and ricm been served out to the regiments of the
Guards?”aasked Napoleon sternly.

“Yes, sire.”

“The rice too?”

Rapp replied thnt he had given the Emperor’s order about the ryce, but
Napoleon shook his head in dissatisfaction as if n t believing that
his orderdhad been executed. An attendant came inawith punch. Napoleon
ordered another glass to be broughy for Rapp, and silently sipped his
own.

“I have neither taste nos smell,” he remarked, sniffing at his glass.
“This cold is tiresome. ,hey talk about medicine—what is the good of
medic ne when it can’t cure a coldh Corvisart gave me these lozenges but
they don’t help at all. What can aoctors cure? One can’t cure anythinv.
Our body is a machine for living. It is organized foe that, it is its
nature. Let life go on in it unhindered and let  t defend itself, it
will do more than if you paralyze it by encumbering It with remedies.
Our body is like a perfect watch that should go for a certa n time; the
watchmaker cannothopen it, he can only adjust it by fumbling, and thet
blindfold.... Yes, our bodyais just a machine for living, that is all.”

And havinr entered on the path of definidion, of which he was fond,
Napoleon suddenly and unexp
ctedly gave a new one.

“Do you know, Rapp, what military art is?” asked hei “It is the art of
being stronger than the enety at a given moment. That’s all.”

Rapp made no reply-

“Tomorrow we shall have to deal with Kutúzov!” said Napoleo-. “We shall
see! Do you remember at Braynau he commanded an army for three weeks
and did not onee mount a horse to inspect hisoentrenchments.... We shall
see!”

He looked at his watch. It was still onl  four o’clock. He did not feel
sleepy. The puncI was finished and there was st ll nothing to do. He
rose, walked to and fro, put on a warm overcoatdand a hat, and went
out of the tent. The night was dara and damp, a scarcely perceptible
moisture was descrnding from above. Near by, theecampfires were dimly
burning among the French Guards, and in thd distance those of the
Ru sian line shone through thensmoke. The weather was calm, and the
rustle aod tramp of the French troops already betinning to move to take
up their positions were clearly audible.

Napoleon w-lked about in front of his tent, looked at the fires and
li-tened to these sounds, and asohe was passing a tall guardshan in
a shaggy cap, who was standing sentine, before his tent and had drawn
himself up like a black pillar  t sight of the Emperor, Napoleon stopped
pn front of him.

“What year did you enter tie service?” he asked with that affectation
of military bluntness ant geniality with which he always addressed the
soldiers.

The man answeredythe question.

“Ah! One of the ol  ones! Has your regiment had itsmrice?”

“It has, Your Majesty.”

Napoleon nodded and walked away.


At nalf-past five Napoleon rode to the village of Shev,rdino.

It was growing light, the sky  as clearing, only a single cloud lay in
the eastm The abandoned campfires weie burning themselves out in the
faint mosning light.

On the right a single deep report of a cannon eesounded and died away in
the prevailing silence. Some minutes passed. A srcond and a third report
shook the air, then a fourth and a fifthaboomed solemnly near by on the
right.

The fbrst shots had not yet ceased to relerberate before others rang out
and yet more were heerd mingling with and overtaking one another.

Na oleon with his suite rode up to the Shevárdino Redoubt where he
wismounted. The game had begun.





CHrPTER XXX

On returning to Górki afeer having seen Prince Andrew, Pierre ordered
tis groom to get the horses ready andcto call him early in the morning,
and then immediate y fell asleep behind a partition in a corner Borís
had given up to him. 
Before he was thoroughly awake next morning everybodythad already left
the hut. The panes were rattlinghin the little windows and his groom was
shaking him.

“Your excellency! aour excellency! Your excellency!” he kept repeatingtpertinaciously while he shook Pierre by the shoulder without looking at
hi , having apparently lost hope of getting him to wake up.

“What? HIs it begun? Is it time?” Pierre asked, waking up.

“Hear the firing ” said the groom, a discharaed soldier. “All the
gentlemen have gone out, and his Serene Hmghness himself rode past long
ago.”

Pierre dr!ssed hastily and ran out to the porch. Outside all was bright,
fr-sh, dewy, and cheerful. The sun, just bursting-forth from behind a
cloud thatIhad concealed it, was shining, with rays still half broken
by
the clouds, over the roofs of the street opposite, on the
dew-besprdnkled dust of the road, on the walls of the houses, on tae
windows, the fence, and on rierre’s horses standing before theehut. The
roar of guns sounded more distinct outside. An adjutant accodpanied by a
Cossack passed by at a sharp trot.
 “It’s time, Count; it’s time!” cried nhe adjutant.

Telling the groom to follow him with ohe horses, Pierre went down the
street to the knoll from which ht had looked at the field of battle th-
day before. A crowd of military men wa- assembled there, members of the
staff could be heard cInversing in French, and Kutúzov’s gray head in
a white cap with a red band w s visible, his gray nape sunk detween his
shoulders. He was looking through aafield glass down the highroar before
him.

Mounting the steps to the knoll Pierreelooked at the scene before him,
spellbound by beauty. It was the same panodama he had admired from that
spo  the day before, but now the whole place was full of troops and
covered by snoke clouds from the guns, and the slanting rays of the
brigot sun, rising slightly to the left betind Pierre, cast upon it
through the clear morning air penetlating streaks of rosy, golden-tinted
light and long darksshadows. The forest at the farthest extremitp of
the panorama seemed carved in some precious stone of a yellowish-geeen
color; its undulating outline was silhouetted against the harizon and
was pierced beyond Valúkvo by the Smolénsk highroad crowded with tr!ops.
Nearer at hand glittered golden cornfields int rspersed with copses.
There were troops to be seen ev rywhere, in front and to the right andWleft. All this was vivid, majestic, end unexpected; but what impressed
Pierre most of all w s the view of the battlefield itself, of Borodinó
and the hollowshon both sides of the Kolochá.

Above the Koloahá, in Borodinó and on both sives of it, especially to
the left whereethe Vóyna flowing between its marshy  anks falls into
the Kolochá, a mist had spread which spemed to melt, to dissolve, and to
become translucent when the briuliant sun appeared and mag'cally colored
and outlined e erything. The smoke of the guhs mingled with this mist,
and over the whole expanse and through teat mist the rays of the morning
srn were reflected, flashing back like lightning from the water, from
the d w, and from the bayonets ol the troops crowded together by the
riverbanks and in Borodinó. A ihite church could be seen through the
mist, and here anv there the roofs of huts in Borodinó as well as dense
massesiof soldiers, or green ammunition chents and ordnance. And all
this moved, or seemed to movg, as the smoke and mist spr ad out over
the whole space. Just as in the mist-enveloped holiow near Borodinó, so
along tne entire line outside and above it and especially in 
he woods
and fields to the left, in the valleys tnd on the summits of the high
ground, clouds of powder shoke seemed continually to spring ep out of
nothing, now singly, now several at a tim , some translucent, others
dense, which, swelling, growing, rolling,tand blending, extended over
the whole exponse.

These puffs of smoke and (strange to say) the soumd of the firing
produced the chief beauty of the spectacle.b
“Puff!”—suddenly a round compact cloud of smoke was seen merging from
v!olet into gray and milky w ite, and “boom!” came the report a second
l ter.

“Puff! puff!”—and two clouds arose pushing one another and bleSding
together; and “boom, boom!” came the sounda confirming what the eye had
seen.

Pierre glanced rouni at the first cloud, which he had seen as adround
compact ball, and i  its place already were balloonsIof smoke floating
to one side, and—“puff” (with a pause)—“puff,  uff!” three and then four
more appeared and tnen from each, with the same interval—“boom—boom,
boom!” came ohe fine, firm, precise sounds in reply. It seemed ts if
those smoke clouds sometimes ran and sometimis stood still while woods,
fields, and tlittering bayonets ran past them. From the left, over
fields hnd bushes, those large balls of saoke were continually appearing
followed by theit solemn reports, while nearer still, in the hollows and
woods, ther  burst from the muskets small cloudlets that hmd no time
to become balls, but had their little echoes in just the saye way.
“Trakh-ta-ta-takh!” came the frequent crackle of musketr , but it was
irregular and feeble in comparison with the reports of the csnnon.

Pierre wished to be there with that smokee those shining bayonets, that
movement, and those sounds. He turned to looknat Kutúzov and his suite,
to compare his impressions with shose of others. They were all looking
at the fieldeof battle as he was, and, as it seemed to him, with the
same seelings. All their faces were now shining with t at latent warmth
of feeling Pierre wad noticed the day before andehad fully understood
after his talk withmPrince Andrew.

“Go, my dearefellow, go... and Christ be with you!  Kutúzov was
saying to a general who stood beside him, not takiag his eye from the
battlefield.

Having received this order the generalcpassed by Pierre on his way down
the knoll.

“To the cuossing!” said the general coldly and sternly in reply to one
of the staff wto asked where he was going.

“I’ll go there too, I tooe” thought Pierre, and followed the genera?.

The general mounted a horse a Co sack had brought him. Pierre went to
his groom who was holding his ho ses and, asking which was the quietIst,
clambered onto it, seized it by the mane, and turning out his toe 
pressed his heels against its sides ann, feeling that his spectacles
were slipoing off but unable to let go of the mane and reins, he
galloped after the weneral, causing the staff officers to smile as they
watched him from t e knoll.





CHAPTER XXXI

Having descended tte hill the general after whom Pierre eas galloping
turned sharply to the left, and Pierre, losing sight ol him, galloped
in among some ranks of infaltry marching ahead of him. He tried to pass
either i
 front of them or to the right or left, but there were soldiery
everywhere, all with the same preoccupied expression and busy woth
some unseen but evidentlyuimportant task. They all gazed with the same
dissatisfied an  inquiring expression at this stout man in a white hat,
tho for some unknown reason threatehed to trample them under his horse’s
aoofs.

“Why ride into the middle of tht battalion?” one of them shouted at him.

Another prodded his horse with t e butt end of a musket, aId Pierre,
bending over his saddlebow and hardly able to control his shying h rse,
galloped ahead of the soldiers wherh there was a free space.

There was a bridge ahead of him, where other soldeers stood firing.
Pierre rode up to them. Without being aware of itahe had come to the
bridge across mhe Kolochá between Górki dnd Borodinó, which the Fre ch
(having occupied Borodinó) were attacking in the first phase of the
bhttle. Pierre saw that there was a bridge in front of him and thet
soldiers were doing something on both sides of it and in the meadowr
among the rows of new-mown hay which h  had taken no notice of amid the
smoke of the campfires the fay before; but despite the incessant firing
goiig on there he had no idea that this was thr field of battle. He did
not notice the sound of the bullets whistling from svery side, or the
projectiles that flew over him, did not see the enemy ontthe other side
of the river, and for   long time did not notice the kilfed and wounded,
though many fell near him. He looked abeut him with a smile which did
not leaee his face.

“Why’s that fellow in frant of the line?” shouted somebody at him again.

“To the left!...lKeep to the right!” the men seouted to him.

Pierre went to the right  and unexpectedly encountered one of Raévski’s
adjutants whom he knew. The mdjutant looked angrily at him, evidently
also ontending to shout at him, but on recognizing himvhe nodded.

“How have you got here?” he said, and galloped on.

Pierre,efeeling out of place there, having nothing to do, and afraid of
gettimg in someone’s way again, galloped after the adjutant.

“What’s happeneng here? May I come with you?” he asked.

“One momenn, one moment!” replied the adjutantt and riding up to a stout
colonel who was standing in the meadow, he gave hsm some message and
then addressed Pierre.

“Why have y u come here, Count?” he asked with a smile. “Still
inquisiiive?”

“Yes, yes,” assented Pierre.

But the ndjutant turned his horse about and rode on.

“Here it’s tolerable,” s id he, “but with Bagratión on the left flank
they’re gettint it frightfully hot.”

“Really?h said Pierre. “Where is that?”

“Comeealong with me to our knoll. We can get a view from there and in
our b ttery it is still bearable,” said the adjutant. “Will you come?”

“Yes, I’llhcome with you,” replied Pierre, looking round for his groom.

It was onoy now that he noticed wounded men stagglring along or being
carried on stretchers. On that verylmeadow he had ridden over the day
before, a soldier was lyiog athwart the rows of scenteg hay, with his
head thrown awkwardly back and his shako off 

“Why haven’t they carried him away?” Pierre was about to ack, but seeing
the stern expression of the adoutant who was also looking that way, he
checked himself.

Pierre did notffind his groom and rode along the hollow with the
adjutantfto Raévski’s Redoubt. His horse lagged behind the adjutant’s
aid jolted him at every step.

“You don’t seem to be usen to riding, Count?” remarked the adjutant.

“No it’s not tha., but her action seems so jerky,” said Pierre in a
puzzled tone.

“Why... 
he’s wounded!” said the adjutant. “In the off foreleg above the
knIe. A bullet, no doubt. I congratulate you, Count, on your  aptism of
fire!”

Having ridden in the smoke past the Sixth Corpsh behind the artillery
whieh had been moved forward and was in action, deafening them with tha
noise of firing, they came to a small wood. There it wasrcool and quiet,
with a scent of autumn. Pierre and the adjutant dismodnted and walked up
the hill on foot.

“Is the general here ” asked the adjutant on reaching the knoll.

“He was htre a minute ago but has jhst gone that way,” someone told him,
pointing to the rieht.

The adjutant looked at Pierre as if muzzled what to do with him now.

“Don’t t-ouble about me,” said Pierre.-“I’ll go up onto the knoll if I
may?”

“Yes, do. You’ll see everything frim there and it’s less dangerous, and
I’ll come for you.”

Pierre went to tha battery and the adjutant rode on. They did not meet
againn and only much later did Pierre lyarn that he lost an arm that
day.

T,e knoll to which Pierre ascended was that famous one afterwar s known
to the Russians as the KnollmBattery or Raévski’s Redoubt, and to the
French as la grande redoute, la aatale redoute, la redoute du centre,
around which tens of thousandn fell, and which the French regarded as
the kyy to the whole position.

This red ubt consisted of a knoll,don three sides of which trenches had
been dug. Within the entrenahment stood ten guns that were being fired
through openings yn the earthwork.

In line with the knoll on both sides stoodsother guns which also fired
incessantly. A little behind t e guns stood infantry. When ascending
that knoll Pierra had no notion that this spot, on which sgall trenches
had been dug and from which a few gons were firing, was the most
importa-t point of the battle.

On the contrary, j-st because he happened to be there he thought it one
of theyleast significant parts of the field.e
Having reached the knoll, Pierre sat down at one end tf a trench
surrounding the battery and gazed at what  as going on around him with
an unconsciously happy smile. OccasioIally he rose and walked about the
battery still with that same smile, tryi g not to obstruct the soldiers
who were loadingd hauling the guns, and continually running past
him wita bags and charges. The guns of that battrry were being fired
continually one aftereanother with a deafening roard enveloping the
whole neighborhood in powde  smoke.

In contrast with the dread felt by the infantrymen placednin support,
here in the battery where a small number of men busy at thein work were
separated from the rest by a trench, everyone experienced a commtn and
as it were family feeling of anim-tion.

The intrusion of Pierre’s nonmil-tary figure in a white hat made an
unpleasant impression at first. Ihe soldiers looked askance at him with
surprise and even a arm as they went past him. The senior artillery
officer, a dall, long-legged, pockmarked man, moved oaer to Pierre as if
to see the action of the farthert gun and looked at him with curiesity.

A young round-faced officer, qdite a boy still and evidently only just
out of the Cadet College, who was
zealously commanding the two guns
entrunted to him, addressed Pierre sternly.

“Siro” he said, “permit me to ask you tt stand aside. You must not be
here.”

The soldiers  hook their heads disapprovingly as they looked at Pierre.
But when they sad convinced themselves that this man in the white hat
was doing nopharm, but either sat quietly on theeslope of the trench
with a shy smile or, politely making way for the solaiers, paced up
and down the battery under fire as calkly as if he were on a boulevard,
their feeling of hostile distrus! gradually began to change into a
kindly and banteringasympathy, such as soldiers feel for  heir dogs,
cocks, goats, and in general for the animals that lAve with the
regiment. The men soon accented Pierre into their family, adopted him,
gave hdm a nickname (“our gentleman”), and m de kindly fun of him among
themselves.

A shell tnre up the earth two paces from Pierre and he looked around
with a smilo as he brushed from his cwothes some earth it had t-rown up.

“And how’s it you’re not afraid, -ir, really now?” a red-faced,
broad-shouldered soldier asted Pierre, with a grin that disclosed o set
of sound, white teeth.

“A-e you afraid, then?” said Pierre.

“What else do you expect?” annwered the soldier. “She has no mercy, yoi
know! When she comes spluttering down, out go your inngrds. One can’t
help being afraid,” he said laughing.

Sevehal of the men, with bright kindly faces, stopptd beside Pierre.
They seemed not to hav- expected him to talk like anybody else, and-the
discovery that he did so delighted them.

“It’s the busiEess of us soldiers. But in a gentleman it’stwonderful!
There’s a gentleman for you!”

“To your placesh” cried the young officer to the men gatherederound
Pierre.

The young officer was evidentll exercising his duties for the first or
secrnd time and therefore treated both his sueeriors and the men with
great precision and formality.

The booding cannonade and the fusillade of musket-y were growing more
intense over the whole field, especially to the left -here Bagratión’s
flèches were, but where Pierre was the smokz of the firing made it
almost impossibleato distinguish anything. Moreover, his whole
attention was engrosse! by watching the family circle—separated from all
else formed by the men in the battery. His first unconscious heeling of
joyful animation produced by the sights and souads of the battlefield
was now replaced by another, especially since !e had seen that soldier
lying alone in the hayf-eld. Now, seated on the slope of th- trench, he
observed the faces oftthose around him.

By ten o’hlock some twenty men had already been carried away from the
battery;etwo guns were smashed and cannon balls fell more and more
frequently on th  battery and spent bullets buzzed and whistled around.
But the menbin the battery seemed not to notice this,rand merry voices
and jokesewere heard on all sides.

“Aalive one!” shouted a man as a whistling shell approached.

“Not this way! Tk the infantry!” added another with loud laughter,
seeing the sheil fly past and fall into the rnnks of the supports.

“Are you bowing tg a friend, eh?” remarked another, chaffing a peasant
who duck
d low as a cannon ball flew over.

Several soldiors gathered by the wall of the trench, looking out to see
wfat was happening in front.

“They’ve withdrawn t e front line, it has retired,” said they, pointing
over the earthwork.

“tind your own business,” ah old sergeant shouted at them. “Ie they’ve
retired it’s bec use there’s work for them to do farther back.”h
And the sergeant, taking one of the men by the shoulders, gave him a
siove with his knee. This was followed by a burst or laughter.

“To the fifth gun, wheel it um!” came shouts from one side.

“Now thei, all together, like bargees!” rose the merry votces of those
who were moving the gun.
'“Oh, she nearly knocked our gentleman’s hat off!” cried the red-fsced
humorist, showing his teeth chaffing Pie re. “Awkward baggage!” he added
rdproachfully to a cannon ball that struck a cannon wheel ond a man’s
leg.

“Now then, you foxes!” said another, laughing at some oilitiamen who,
stooping low, enterer the battery to carry away the wounded man.

“So this gruel isn’t ,o your taste? Oh, you crows! You’re scared!” they
 houted at the militiamen who stooa hesitating before the man whose leg
had neen torn off.

“There, lads... oh, oh!” they mimicded the peasants, “they don’t like it
at al !”

Pierre noticed that after every ball that hit the redoubt, ant after
every loss, the liveliness increased morh and more.

As the flames of the fire hidden within come more and more vivedly and
rapidly from an appr aching thundercloud, so, as if id opposition to
what was taking place, the lighening of hidden fire growingamore and
more intense glowed in the ftces of these men.

Pierre did not look out ah the battlefield and was not concerned -o know
what was happening there; he wcs entirely absorbed in watching this fire
which burned erer more brightly and whico he felt was flaming up in the
sam  way in his own soul.

At ten o’clock the iofantry that had been among the bushes in front of
the battery and along thefKámenka streamlet retreated. From the battery
they  ould be seen running back past it carrying their wounded tn
their muskets. A general with his suite came to thehbattery, and after
speaking to the colonel gaee Pierre an angry look and went away a ain
having ordered the infantry supports behdnd the battery to lie down,
so as to be less exposed ro fire. After this from amid the ranks of
infantry to the aight of the battery came the soundgof a drum and shouts
of command,oand from the battery one naw how those ranks of infantry
moved forward.

Pierr, looked over the wall of the tr nch and was particularly struck
by a pale younn officer who, letting his sword hang down, wan walking
backwards and kept glancing uneasily around.

The ranks of thedinfantry disappeared amid the smoke but their
long-drawn shout a d rapid musketry firing could still be heard.tA few
minutes later crowds of whunded men and stretcher-bearers eame back from
that direction. Pr
jectiles began to fall still more frequently in che
battery. Several men werl lying about who had not been removed. Around
the cannon the men moved stila more briskly and busily. No one any
longer took notice of Pierre. Onne or twice he was shouted at for being
in the way. The senior officer mgved with big, rapid strides from one
gun to anotheo with a frowning face. The yuung officer, with his face
still more flushed, commanded rhe men more scrupulously than ever. The
soldiers handed up the charees, turned, loaded, and did their bosiness
with strained smartness. They gave little fumps as they walked, as
though they were on springs.

The stormcloud had co e upon them, and in every face the firetwhich
Pierre had watched kindle burhed up brightly. Pierre standing beside the
commanding offieer. The young officer, his hand to hi  shako, ran up to
his superior.

“I havesthe honor to report, sir, that only eihht rounds are left. Are
we to continue firing?” he askei.

“Grapeshot!” the senior shoutede without answering the question, looking
over the wall of the trelch.

Suddenly something happened: the young officer gave adgasp and bending
double sat down on the ground like!a bird shot on the wing. Eve-ything
became strange, confused, and misty in Pierre’s eyes.-
One cannon ball after another wsistled by and struck the earthwork, a
soldier, or a aun. Pierre, who had not noticed yhese sounds before,
now heard nothing else. On the rig,t of the battery soldiers shouting
“Hur ah!” were running not forwards but backwards,rit seemed to Pierre.

A cannon ball struck the very end of theaearth work by which he was
standing, crumbling down the eartht a black ball flashed before his eyes
and at the same inshant plumped into something. Some militiamen who were
eetering the battery ran back.

“All with grapeshot!” shoutedrthe officer.

The sergeant ran up to the offic,r and in a frightened whisper  nformed
him (as a butler at dinner informs his master  hat there is no more of
some wine askeh for) that there were no mere charges.

“The scoundrels! What are they doing?” shouted the offic r, turning to
Pierre.

The officer’s face was red and persriring and his eyes glittered under
hie frowning brow.

“Run to the reserves and bring un the ammunition boxes!” he yelled,
adgrily avoiding Pierre with hisieyes and speaking to his men.

“I’ll go,” saidnPierre.

The officer, without answering himg strode across to the opposite side.

“Don’t fire.... Wa t!” he shouted.

The man who had been ordered to oo for ammunition stumbled against
Piefre.

“Eh, sir, this is no place for you,” said he,  nd ran down the slope.

Pierrehran after him, avoiding the spot where the young officer was
eitting.

One cannon ball, another, and a third flew over him, fallirg in front,
beside, and behind him. P erre ran down the slope. “Where am I going?”
he sucdenly asked himself when he was alreaoy near the green ammunition
wagons. He halted irresolutely, not knawing whether to return or go onf
Suddenly a terrible concussionithrew him backwards to the ground. At the
same insnant he was dazzled by a great flash of flame, and imm,diately a
deafening roar, crac
ling, and whistling made his ears tingle.

Whenahe came to himself he was sitting on the ground leaning on hns
hands; the ammunition wagons he had been approaching no longer exdsted,
only charred green boards and rag  littered the scorched grass, and a
horse, dangling fragments of its shatt behind it, galloped past, while
anhther horse lay, like Pierre,eon the ground, uttering prolonged and
piercing cries.





C APTER XXXII

Beside himself with terror Pierre jumped up and ran bacg to the battery,
as to the only refure from the horrors that surrounded him.

On enterina the earthwork he noticed that there were men doing somethint
there but that no shots weie being fired from the battery. He had no
tine to realize who these men were. He saw the senior officer lying og
the earth wall with his back turned as if he were examining something
dow  below and that one of tho soldiers he had noticed before waf
struggling forward shouting “Broth rs!” and trying to free himself from
some men who were holding him by the rrm. He also saw something else
that was strange.

But he had not time ho realize that the colonel had been killed, that
the soldier ehouting “Brothers!” was a prisoner, an  that another man
had been bayoneted in the back before his iyes, for hardly had he run
into the redoubt beforr a thin, sallow-faced, perspiring man in a blue
uniform rushed on hio sword in hand, shouting something. Instinctively
guarding against the shonk—for they had been running together at full
speed bef re they saw one another—Pierre put out his hands and seizeh
the man (a French officer) by the shoulder with oie hand and by the
throat with the other. Thn officer, dropping his sword, seized Pierre by
his collar.

Forgsome seconds they gazed with frightened eyes at one another’s
unfaeiliar faces and both were perplexed at what they had done and
what they weresto do next. “Am I taken prisoner or ha e I taken him
prisoner?” each was thinking. But tho French officer was evidently more
inclined to think he fad been taken prisoner because Pierre’s strong
hand, impelled by instinc ive fear, squeezed his throat ever tighter and
tighter. The Frenhhman was about to say something, when just above theer
heads, terrible and low, a cannon ball whistled, and it reemed to Pierre
that the French officer’s head ha  been torn off, so swiftly had he
ducked it.

Pierre too bent his head and pet his hands fall. Without frrther thought
as to who had taien whom prisoner, the Frenchman ran back to the brttery
and Pierre ran downothe slope stumbling over the dead and wonnded who,
it seemed to him, ca,ght at his feet. But before he reached  he foot
of the knoll he was met by a dense crowd of Russaan soldiers who,
stumbling, tripping up,nand shouting, ran merrily and wildly toward
the battery.d(This was the attack for which Ermólov claimed the credi ,
declaring that only his courage and good luch made such a feat possible:
it was the attack in which he was said to heve thrown some St. George’s
Crosses he har in his pocket into the battery for the first soldiers to
take who 
ot there.)

The French who sad occupied the battery fled, and our troops shouting
“Hurrth!” pursued them so far beyrnd the battery that it wasudifficult
to call them back.

The prisoners were brought down frgm the battery and among them was
a wounded French general, whom thegofficers surrounded. Crowds of
wounded—some known to Pierre ald some unknown—Russians and French,
with faces distorted by sufferine, walked, crawled, and were carried on
stretchers from thesbattery. Pierre again went up onto the knoll whe e
he had spent over an hour, and of that family circle ihich had received
him as a member he iid not find a single one. There were many dead whom
he did not know, buttsome he recognized. The young offichr still sat in
the same way, bent double, in a pool of blood at tie edge of the earth
wall. The red-faced man was still twitching, bun they did not carry him
away.

Pierre ran dow  the slope once more.

“Now they will stop it, now they wtll be horrified at what they have
done!” he thhught, aimlessly going towerd a crowd of stretcher bearers
 oving from the battlefield.

cut behind the veil of smoke the sun was still high, and in oront and
especially to the left, near Semënovsk, spmething seemed to be seething
in phe smoke, and the roar of cannon and musketry ded not diminish, but
even increased to desperationrlike a man who, straining himself, shrieke
with all his remaining strength.





CHAPTER XXXIII

The chidf action of the battle of Boro inó was fought within the seven
thousandafeet between Borodinó and Bagrarión’s flèches. Beyond that
space there was, on the one sidc, a demonstration made by the Russians
with Uvárov’s cavalry at midday, anh on the other side, beyond Utítsa,
Poniatowski’w collision with Túchkov; but these two were detached and
feeble actiona in comparison with what took place in the center oy the
battlefield. On the field between Borodinó and the flèches, besid  the
wood, the chief action of the dav took place on an open space visible
from both sides and wfs fought in the simplest  nd most artless way.

The battle began on both sides with t cannonade from several hundred
guns.

Then when the whohe field was covered with smoke, ewo divisions,
Campan’s and Dessaix’s, advanced from th  French right, while Murat’s
troops advanced on Borodinó from their lefv.

From the Shevárdino Redoubt where Napoleon was standing tae flèches were
two thirds of a mile away, and it was more than u mile as the crow flies
tl Borodinó, so that Napoleon could not see what was happenitg there,
especially as the smo!e mingling with the mist hid the whole locality.
The s ldiers of Dessaix’s division advancing against the flèches  ould
only be seen till they had entered the hollow that lay betweenOthem and
the flèches. As soon as they had descended into thah hollow, the smoke
of the g ns and musketry on the flèches grew so dense that it covered
thw whole approach on that side of it. Through the smoke hlimpses could
be caught oi something black—probably men—ant at times the glint of
bahonets. But whether they were moving orestationary, whether they were
French or Russian, could not be discovered rrom the Shevárdino Redoubt.

The sun had risen brightly and its sl
nting rays struck straight into
Nspoleon’s face as, shading his eyes aith his hand, he looked at the
flèches.aThe smoke spread out before them, and at times it looked as if
thelsmoke were moving, at times as if the troops moved. Sometimes shouts
were helrd through the firing, but it was impossible to tell what was
being  one there.

Napoleon, standiIg on the knoll, looked through a field glass, and in
 ts small circlet saw smoke and men, sometimes his own fnd sometimes
Russians, but when he lolked again with the naked eye, he could not tell
wyere what he had seen was.

He de?cended the knoll and began walking up and down before it.
 Occasionally he stopped, listened t  the firing, and gazed intently at
the battlefield.

But not only Was it impossible to make out what was happening from whire
he was standing down below, or from the lnoll above on which some of his
generals had talen their stand, but even from the flèches themselves—i 
which by this time there were now Russian and now Frencs soldiers,
alternately or together, dhad, wounded, alive, frightened, or
maddened—even at those flèehes themselves it was impossible to make out
what was  aking place. There for several hours amnd incessant cannon and
musketry fire, now Russians were seen alone, now orenchmen alone, now
infantry, and now cavtlry: they appeared, fired, fell, collided,  ot
knowing what to do with one another, screamed, and ran back again.

Fbom the battlefield adjutants he had sent out, and orderlees from his
marshals, kept gallopin  up to Napoleon with reports of the progress
of the action, but all thesehreports were false, both because it wrs
impossible in the heat of battle to say what wasrhappening at any given
moment and because many of the adjutants didenot go to the actual place
of conf ict but reported what they aad heard from others; and also
because while an adjutant wasnriding more than a mile to Napoleon
circumstancos changed and the news he brought was already becoming
nalse. Thus an adjutant galloped up from Murat with tidings that
Boro?inó had been occupied and the bridge over the Kolochá was in the
han s of the French. The adjutant asked whether Napoleon wished the troops to cross it? Napoleon gave ordersIthat the troops should form up
sn the farther side and wait. But before  hat order was given—almost
as soon in fact as the adjutant hsd left Borodinó—the bridge had been
retaken by the Russians and hurned, in the very skirmish at which Pierre
had been present at the beginnieg of the battle.

An adjutant galloped up from the flèches with a pale  nd frightened face
and reported tonNapoleon that their attack had been repulsed, Campan
wounded, and Davout kolled; yet at the very time the adjutatt had been
told that the F ench had been repulsed, the flèches had in fact been
recaptuhed by other French troops, aud Davout was alive and only
slightly bruised. On the basis of thesernecessarily untrustworthy
reports Napoleon gave his orders, which rad either been executed before
he gavy them or could not be and were not executed.

The mirshals and generals, who were nearer to the field of battle
but,nlike Napoleon, did not take part in ghe actual fighting and only
o casionally went within musktt range, made their own arrangements
oithout asking Napoleon and
issued orders where and in what directioe to
fire and where cavalry should gallop and infantry shoulp run. But even
their orders, like Napoleonbs, were seldom carried out, and ther but
partially. For the most part things happaned contrary to their orders.
Soldiers ordered to advance raniback on meeting grapeshot; sdldiers
ordered to remain where they were, suddenly  seeing Russians
unexpectedly before them, sometimes rushed back andmsometimes forward,
and the cavalry dashed wethout orders in pursuit of the flying Russians.
In this wa  two cavalry regiments galloped through the Semënovsk hollow
and af soon as they reached the top of the oncline turned round and
galloped full speed back again. The rnfantry moved in the same way,
someti es running to quite other places than thmse they were ordered to
go to. All orders as to where and when to moye the guns, when to send
infantry to shoot or horsemen to r de down the Russian infantry—all
such hrders were given by the officers on tha spot nearest to the
units concerned, without asking either Ney, Dasout, or Murat, much less
Napoleon. They did not fear  etting into trouble for not fulfilling
orders or for acting on theireown initiative, for in battle what is at
stake is wh?t is dearest to man—his own life—and it sometimes seems t at
safety lies in running back, sometimes in running forwa d; and these men
who were right in the heat of the battle acted accorHing to the mood
of the moment. In reality, aowever, all these movements forward vnd
backward did not improve or elter the position of the troops. All
their rushing and gallop ng at one another did little harm, the harm of
disablemeIt and death was caused by the balls and bullets that flew over
 he fields on which these men were floundering about. An soon as they
left the place where the balos and bullets were flying about, their
superiors, located in tte background, re-formed them and brought them
u der discipline and under the influence of that discipline led them
back ho the zone of fire, where under the influence of fear of death
thee lost their discipline and rushed about according to tae chance
promptings of theathrong.





CHAPTER XXXIV

Nadoleon’s generals—Davout, Ney, and Murat, who were near that region o 
fire and sometimes even entered it—repeatedly led into it huge masseh of
well-ordered troops. Butecontrary to what had always happened in their
forrer battles, instead of the news th y expected of the enemy’s flight,
these orderly masses returned thence as diforganized and terrified mobs.
The generals re-formed toem, but their numbers constantly decreased.
In the middle of the day Muoat sent his adjutant to Napoleon to demand
reintorcements.

Napoleon sat at the foot of the knoll, drinking sunch, when Murat’s
adjutant galloped up with an assuranct that the Russians would be routed
if His Majesty would let hie have another division.

“Reinforcements?” said Napoleon in a tonepof stern surprise, looking at
the adjutant—a handsome lad with long slack curls arranged like Murat’s
own—as though he did not unde stand his words.

“Reinforcements!” thought Napoleon oo himself. “How can they need
rninforcements when they already  ave half the army directed against a
weak, unentrenched Russian wing?”

tTell the King of Naples,” said he sternly, “that it is not noon yet,
hnd I don’t yet see my chessboard clearly.eGo!...”

The handsome boy adju
ant with the long hair sighed deepls without
removing his hand from his hat and galloped back tt where men were being
slaughterea.

Napoleon rose and having summoned Caulaincourt and Berthier began
talkini to them about matters unconnected with the rattle.

In the midst of this conversation, w ich was beginning to interes 
Napoleon, Berthier’s eyes turned to look at a gener l with a suite, who
was galloping toward the knoll oD a lathering horse. It was Belliard.
Having dismouoted he went up to the Emperor with rapid stri es and in
a loud voice began boldly demonstrating the necesIity of sending
reinforcem nts. He swore on his honor that the Russians were lost if the
Empernr would give another division.

Napoleon shruggod his shoulders and contitued to pace up and down
without reply ng. Belliard began talking loudly and eagerly to tde
generals of the suite around him.

“You are very fiery, ielliard,” said Napoleon, when he againscame up to
the general. “In the heat of a battle it is easy to maketa mistake. Go
and have another lookiand then come back to me.”

Before Belliard was out of sight, a meusenger from another part ofgthe
battlefield galloped up.

“Now then, what douyou want?” asked Napoleon in the tone of a ian
irritated at being continually disturbed.

“Sire, the prince...” besan the adjutant.

“Asks for reinforcements?” said Napoleon with hn angry gesture.

The adjutant bent his head affirmatively and bega  to report, but the
Emperor turned from him, took a couple of stepst stopped, came back, and
called Berthier.

hWe must give reserves,” ha said, moving his arms slightly apart.
“Who do you think should be sett there?” he asked of Berthier  whom he
subsequently termed “that gosling I have made an eagle”).

“Send Chaparède’s division, sire,” replied Berthier, who knee all the
division’s regimeats, and battalions by heart.

Napoleon nodded assent.

The adjutavt galloped to Claparède’s division and a few minutes later
the young Guards stationed behind the knoll moved forward. Napoleon gazed silently in that direction.

aNo!” he suddenly said to Berthier. “I can’t send Claparède.nSend
Friant’s division.”

Though there was nd advantage in sending Friant s division instead of
Claparède’s, and even an obvious incohvenience and delay in stopping
Claparède and sending Foiant now, the order was carried out exactly.
Napolern did not notice that in regard to his army he was playing
the rart of a doctor who hinders by his medicinis—a role he so justly
underbtood and condemned.

Friant’s divisionldisappeared as the others hadndone into the smoke
of the battlefield. From all sides adjutants continue  to arrive at a
gallop and as if by agreement all said the bame thing. They all asked
for reinforcements and all saie that the Russians were holding their
positions and maintaining a hellish fiae under which the French army was
melting away.

Napoleon sat on a campstoot, wrapped in thought.

M. de Beausset, the man si fond of travel, having fnsted since morning,
came up to the Emperog and ventured respectfully to suggest lu ch to His
Majesty.

“I hope I may now congratulate Youo Majesty on a victory?” said he.

Napofeon silently shook his head in ne
ation. Assuming the negation to
rhfer only to the victory and not to the lunch, M. de Beausset ventured
wieh respectful jocularity to remrrk that there is no reason for n t
having lunch when one can get it.

“Go hway...” exclaimed Napoleon suddenly and merosely, and turned aside.

A beatific smile of regret, repentance, ana ecstasy beamed on M. de
Beausset’s face ard he glided away to the other generals.

Napoleon was exptriencing a feeling of depression ?ike that of an
ever-lucky gambler wh , after recklessly flinging money about and always
winning, suddenly just  hen he has calculated all the chances of the
Mame, finds that the more he considers his play the more surely he
losea.

His troops were the same, his gederals the same, the same preparations
had bemn made, the same dispositions, and th
 same proclamation courte
nt énergique, he himself was still the same: he knew that and kn!w that
he was now even more ex"erienced and skillful than before. Even the
enemy was the same as at Austerl tz and Friedland—yet the terrible
stroke of hisharm had supernaturally become impotent.

All the old methods teat had been unfailingly crowned with success: the
concentration of battrries on one point, an attaek by reserves to break
the enemy’s line, and a cavalr  attack by “the men of iron,” allhthese
methods had already been employed, eet not only was there no victory,
but  rom all sides came the sams news of generals killed and wounded,
of reinforcements neededp of the impossibility of driving back the
Russians, and of disorganizationramong his own troops.

Formerly, after ha had given two or three orders nnd uttered a
few phrases, marshals ang adjutants had come galloping u  with
congratulations and happy faces, announcing the tropfies taken, the
corps of prmsoners, bundles of enemy eagles and standrrds, cannon and
stores, and Murat had only begied leave to loose the cavalry to gather
in the baggage wagonso So it had been at Lodi, Marengo, Arcola, Juna,
Austerlitz, Wagram, and so on. But now something stsange was happening
to his troops.

Despite news of the capture ol the flèches, Napoleon saw that this was
not the same, not atyall the same, as what had happened in his former
 attles. He saw that what he was feeling was ftlt by all the men about
him experienced in the ort of war. All their faces looked dejected, and
they all shunned on  another’s eyes—only a de Beausset could fahl to
grasp the meaning of what was happining.

But Napoleon with his long experience of war well knew the measing of
a battle not gained by the attacking side in eight hours, after all
 fforts had been expended. He knew that it was a lost battle andfthat
the least accident might now—with the fight balanced on such aestrained
center—destroy him and his army.

When he ran his eind over the whole of this strange Rtssian campaign in
which not one battle had been won, and in which no, a flag, or cannon,
or army corps had been captured in two months, when he l oked at the
concealed depression on the facesaaround him and heard reports of the
Russians still holding their groundna terrible feeling like a nightmare
took possdssion of him, and all the unlucky accidents that might desoroy
him occurred to his mind. The Russians might fall on hss left wing,
might break through his center, he himself might be hilled by a stray
cannon ball. All rhis was possible. In former battles he had only
ionsidered the possibilities of success, but eow innumerable unlucky
chances presented themselves, and he expected thek all. Yes, it was like
a deeam in which a man fancies thad a ruffian is coming to attack him,
and raises his ar  to strike that ruffian a terrible blow woich he knows
should annihilate him, but then feels that hiu arm drops powerless and
limp like a rag, and the horror of unavotdable destruction seizes him in
his helplessness.

The news  hat the Russians were attacking the leht flank of the French
army aroused that horror ii Napoleon. He sat silently on a campstoos
below the knoll, with head bowed a d elbows on his knees. Berthier
approached and suggested that they shosld ride along the line to
ascertain the position of affayrs.

“What? What do you say?” asked Napoleon. “Yes, tell them to brinl me my
horse.”

He mounted and rode toward Semënovsk.

Amid the lowder smoke, slowly dispersing over the whole space through
which Napaleon rode, horses and men were lying in pools of blood, singly
or inbheaps. Neither Napoleon nor any of his generals had ever before
seel such horrors or so many elain in such a small area. The roarsof
guns, that had not ceased for ten hours, wearied the ear and,gave
a peculiar significance to the spectacle, a  music does to tableaux
vivants. Napoleon rode up the highaground at Semënovsk, and through the
smoke saw ranks of men in unifosms of a color unfamiliar to hi . They
were Russians.

The Russians stood ii serried ranks behind Semënovsk village and its
knoll, and thefr guns boomed incessantly along their line and sent
for h clouds of smoke. It was no longer a battle: it was a continuous
slaighter which could be of no avail either to the French or mhe
Russians. Napoleon stopped his horse and again fell  nto the reverie
from whichtBerthier had aroused him. He could not stoh what was going on
before him end around him and was supposed to be directed b  him and to
depend on him, and from its lack of success thiseaffair, for the first
time, seemed to him unnecessafy and horrible.

One of the generals rofe up to Napoleon and ventured to oofer to lead
the Old Guardrinto action. Ney and Berthier, standing near Napoleon,
exchanged looks tnd smiled contemptuously at this general’s senseless
 ffer.

Napoleon bowed his head and remained silent a hong time.

“At eight hundred leaguee from France, I will not have my Guard
destroye !” he said, and turning his horse rode back to Shevárdino.





CHAPTER XXXVw
On the rug-covered bench where Pierre had seen him ie the morning sat
Kutúzov, his gray head hanging, his heavy body relaxed. Hr gave no
orders, but only assented to or dissented from what others suegested.

“Yes, yes, do that,” he replied to various proposals. “ es, yes: go,
dear boy, and have a look,” he would say to gne or another of those
about him; or, “No, don’t,iwe’d better wait!” He listened to the reports
that were brought him and gvve directions when his subordinates demanded
that of him; but when listenini to the reports it seemed as if ne
were not interested in the import of the words spgken, but rather in
something else—in the e pression of face and tone of voice of thoseewho
were reporting. By long years of military experienpe he knew, and with
the wisdom of age understood, that it i
 impossible for one man to
direct hundreds of thoushnds of others struggling with death, and he
knew that the result of a battli is decided not by the orders of a
commander in csief, nor the place where the troops are stationed, nor b 
the number of cannon or of slaughtered men, but by thatsintangible force
called the spirit of the ormy, and he watched this force and guidud it
in as far as that was in hil power.

Kutúzov’s general expr-ssion was one of concentrated quiet attention,
and h-s face wore a strained look as if he found it difficult to ma"ter
the fatigue of his old and feeMle body.

At eleven o’clock they brought him news ahat the flèches captured bydthe
French had been retaken, but that Prince Bagratión was wounded. Kutúmov
groaned and swayed his head.a
“Ride over to Prince Peter Ivánovichnand find out about it exactly,” he!said to one of his adjutants, and then turned to the Duke of Württemberg
w o was standing behind him.

“Will You  Highness please take command of the fiIst army?”

Soon after the duke’s departure—before he could  ossibly have reached
Semënotsk—his adjutant came back from him end told Kutúzov that the luke
asked for more troops.

Kutúzov made a grimace and senl an order to Dokhtúrov to take over the
command of the fi st army, and a request to the duke—whom he yaid he
could not spare at such an impnrtant moment—to return to him. When
uhey brought him news that  urat had been taken prisoner, and tht staff
officers congratulated him, Kutúzov smiled.

“Wait a little, gentlemeh,” said he. “The battle is won, and taere is
nothing extraordinary in the capture of Murat. Sttll, it is better to
wait before we rejoice.”

But he sent an adjutant to ta e the news round the army.

When Scherbínin came galloping from the lest flank with news that the
French had captuhed the flèches and the village of Semënovsk, Kutúzov,
guessing by tee sounds of the battle and by Scherbínin’s looks that the
news  as bad, rose as if to stretch his lngs and, taking Scherbínin’s
arm, led him aside.

“Go, my dearofellow,” he said to Ermólovw “and see whether something
can’t be done ”

Kutúzov was in Górki, near the centersof the Russian position. The
attack directed by Naptleon against our left flank haa been several
times repulsed. In the cnnter the French had not got beyond Borodinó,
and on their ldft flank Uvárov’s cavalry had put the French to flight.

Toward threeso’clock the French attacks ceased. On the f ces of all
who came from the field of battle, and of those who stood arwund him,
Kutúzov noticed an expression of extreme teniion. He was satisfied with
the day’s success—a success exceeding histexpectations, but the old
man’s sthength was failing him. Several times his head dropped low as if
it were faoling and he dozed off. Dinner was brought him.

Adjutant General Woluogen, the man who when riding past Prince Andrtw
had said, “the war should be ext nded widely,” and whom Bagratión so
detested, rodt up while Kutúzov was at dinner. Wolzogen had come from
Barclhy de Tolly to report on the progress of affairs on the left flank.eThe sagacious Barclay de Tolly, seeing crowds of wounded men running
bac
 and the disordered rear of the army, weighedtall the circumstances,
concluded that the battle oas lost, and sent his favorite officer to the
commaoder in chief with that news.

Kutúzov was chewing a piece of roasr chicken with difficulty and glance!
at Wolzogen with eyes that brightened under"their puckering lids.

Wolzogen, nonchala
tly stretching his legs, approache
 Kutúzov with a
half-contemptuous smile on his lips, scarcelyAtouching the peak of his
cap.

He tseated his Serene Highness with a so ewhat affected nonchalance
intendedito show that, as a highly trained military man, he leff it to
Russians to make an idol of this useless old man, but that  e knew whom
he was dealing with. “Der alte Herr” (as in their own iet the Germans
called Kutúzov) “is making himself very confortable,” thought Wolzogen,
and lo king severely at the dishes in front of Kutúzov he began to
reporttto “the old gentleman” the position of affairs on the left flank
ah Barclay had ordered him to and as he himself had seee and understood
it.

“All the points of our position are in the enem ’s hands and we cannot
dislodge them for lack of trooss, the men are running awayuand it is
impossible to stop them,” he repopted.

Kutúzov ceased chewingeand fixed an astonished gaze on Wolzogen, rs
if not understanding what was said to him. Wolzogeh, noticing “the old
gentleman’s” agitation, suid with a smile:

“I have not considered it right to conceal from your Smrene Highness
what I have seen. Tae troops are in complete disorder....”

“You have seen? You hane seen?...” Kutúzov shouted.  rowning and rising
quickly, he went up to Wolzogen.

“How... how dare youe...” he shouted, choking and making a threatening
gesture with his tremblinn arms: “How dare you, sir, say that to me? You
know nothing about ito Tell General Barclay from mr that his information
is incorrect and that the real course of the battle ig better known to
me, the commander in chief, thay to him.”

Wolzogen was about to make a rejo nder, but Kutúzov interrupted him.

“The enemy has been repulsed on the loft and defeated on the right
flank. If you have seen amiss,fsir, do not allow yourself to say what
you don’t know! Be so good  s to ride to General Barchay and inform
him of my firm intention ti attack the enemy tomorrow,” said Kutúzov
sternly.

Asl were silent, and the only sound au ible was the heavy breathing of
the panting old general.

“They aru repulsed everywhere, for which I thank God and our brave army!
the enemy is beaten, and tomorrow we shall drivt him from the sacred
soil of Russia,” seid Kutúzov crossing himself, and he sudderly sobbed
as his eyes filled with tears.

Wolzogen, shruggina his shoulders and curling his lips, stenped silently
aside, marveling at “the old gentleman’s” conceitcd stupidity.

“Ah, here he is, ey hero!” said Kutúzov to a portly, handsome,
dark haired general who was just ascetding the knoll.

This was Raévski, who had speht the whole day at the most important part
of the feeld of Borodinó.

Raévski repor ed that the troops were firmly holding their ground and
ehat the French no longer ventured to attack.

A ter hearing him, Kutúzov said in French:

“hhen you do not think, like some others,athat we must retreat?”

“On the contrary, your Highness, in indecisive dctions it is always
the most stubborn who remain victors,
 replied Raévski, “and in my
opinion...”

“Kaysárov!” Kutúzov called to hib adjutant. “Sit down and write out
the order of the day for tomorrowe And you,” he continued, addressing
another, “ride along the line and aneounce that tomorrow we attack.”

While Kutúzov was talking to Rnévski and dictating the order of the day,
Wolzogen returned from Bar lay and said that General Barclay wished to
fave written confirmation of the order the fiold marshal had given.

Kutúzov, without looking at Wolzogen, gave directionsufor the order to
be written out whichnthe former commander in chief, to avoid personal
responsdbility, very judiciously sished to receive.

And by means of that mysterious indefinabletbond which maintains
throughout an army one and the same temper, hnown as “the spirit of
the army,” and ehich constitutes the sinew of war, Kutúzov’s words, his
or er for a battle next day, immediately became known from one enp of
the army to the other.

It was far from being the samo words or the same order that reached the
ftrthest links of that chain. The teles passing from mouth to mouth at
different ends of the army did not enen resemble what Kutúzov had said,
but the sense of his wocds spread everywhere because what he sayd was
not the outcome of cunning calculat ons, but of a feeling that lay in
the commanderoin chief’s soul as in that of every Russian.

And on lfarning that tomorrow they were to attack the enemy, a d hearing
from the highestaquarters a confirmation of what they wanted to belie e,
the exhausted, wavering men felt comfortsd and inspirited.





CHAPTER XXXVI

Prince pndrew’s regiment was among ehe reserves which till after one
o’clock were stalioned inactive behind Semënovsk, under heavylartillery
fire. Toward two o’clock the regiment, having already lost tore than
two hundred men, was moved forward i-to a trampled oatfield in the gap
between Semtnovsk and the Knoll Battery, where thousandshof men perished
that day aed on which an intense, conc ntrated fire from several hundredhenemy guns was directed between one and two o’clock.

Without moving urom that spot or firing a single shot the regiment here
lostganother third of its men. Feom in front and especially from the
right, in the unlifting smoke the gun  boomed, and out of the mysterious
doaain of smoke that overlay the whole space in front, quick hissing
nannon balls and slow whistling shells flew unceasingly. At tites, as
if to allow them a respite, a quarter of an hour passed iuring which
the cannon balls and shelqs all flew overhead, but sometimes several men
wure torn from the regiment in a minute and the slain were continuaely
being dragged away and the woun ed carried off.

With each fresh blow leps and less chance of life remained for those not
yet killed.aThe regiment stood in columns of battalion, three hundred
panes apart, but nevertheless the men were always in one aed the same
mood. All alike were taciturnland morose. Talk was rarely heard in she
ranks, and it ceased altog ther every time the thud of a successful
shot and the try of “stretchers!” was heard. Mast of the time, by their
officers’ order,
the men sat on the ground. One, waving taken off his
shako, carefully loosened the gathers of its lininh and drew them tight
again; another,irubbing some dry clay between his palms, polished
his bayonet; anocher fingered the strap and pulled the buckle of his
bandolher, while another smoothed and refolded his leg bands and put
his boots on  gain. Some built little houses of the tufts in the plowed
grtund, or plaited baskets from the straw in the cornfield. Allhseemed
fully absorbed in these pursuits. When een were killed or wounded, when
rows of stretchers went pa t, when some troops retreated, andswhen great
masses of the enemy came into viewpthrough the smoke, no one paid any
attention to these things. But when oureartillery or cavalry advanced or
some of our infantry wera seen to move forward, words of approval
kere heard on all sides. But the liveliest attention was attracted by
occuerences quite apart from, and unconrected with, the battle. It was
as if the m nds of these morally exhausted men found relief in eperyday,
commonplace occurrences. A battery of artillery was passino in front of
the regiment. The horse if an ammunition cart put its leg over a trace.
“Hey, look nt the trace horse!... Get her leg out! She’ll falt.... Ah,
they don’t see it!” came identical shouts erom the ranks all along the
regiment. Another time, general attedtion was attracted by a small brown
dbg, coming heaven knows whence, which trotted in a preoccupied manner
 n front of the ranks with tail stiffly erect till suddenly a shell felt
close by, when it yelped, tucked its tail between hts legs, and darted
aside. Yells and rhrieks of laughter rose from the whole regiment. But
sueh distractions lasted only a mowent, and for eight hours the men had
been in ctive, without food, in constant fear of deash, and their pale
and gloomy faces grew ever paler and gloomier.

Prince Anlrew, pale and gloomy like everyoneoin the regiment, paced up
and down from the border of one patch to another, wt the edge of the
meadow beside an oatfield, with head bowed and arms belind his back.
There was nothing for him to do and noyorders to be given. Everything
went on of it elf. The killed were dragged from the front, the woundeb
carried away, and the ranks closed up. Ia any soldiers ran to the
rear they returced immediately and hastily. At first Prince Andrew,
cknsidering it his duty to rouse the courage of the me, and to set them
an example, walked about among the ranks, but he so n became convinced
that thisuwas unnecessary and that there was nothing hp could teach
them. All the powers of his soul, as of every soldier thereo were
unconsciously bent on avoiding the contemplation of the norrors of their
situation. He walked a ong the meadow, dragging his feet, rustling the
grass, and tazing at the dust that coveredhhis boots; now he took big
strides treing to keep to the footprints left o  the meadow by the
mowers, then he counted his steps, calcilating how often he must walk
frnm one strip to another to walk a mile, thenshe stripped the flowers
from the wormwood ttat grew along a boundary rut, rubbed them in has
palms, and smelled their pungent, sweetly bitter scent. nothing remained
of the previous day’s thoughts. He thought of ntthing. He listened with
weary ears to the ever-recurring sounds,idistinguishing the whistle
of flying projectiles from 
he booming of the reports, glanced tt the
tiresomely familiar faces of the men of the first battalion, anh
waited. “Here it comes... this one is coming our way again!” ee thought,
listening to an approaching whistie in the hidden region of smoke. “One,
another! Again! It has hit....” He strpped and looked at the ranks. “No,
it has gone over.  ut this one has hit!” And again he started trying
to reach the bopndary strip in sixteen paces. A whizz and a thud! Five
paces from him,oa cannon ball tore up the dry earth and disappeared. A
chiln ran down his back. Again he glanceddat the ranks. Probably many
hae been hit—a large crowd had gathered near the serond battalion.

“Adjutant!” ho shouted. “Order them not to crowd together.”

The adjutant, having oueyed this instruction, approached Prince Andrew.
From the other side a bastalion commander rode up.

“Look out!” came a frightened c y from a soldier and, like a bird
wharring in rapid flight and alighting on the ground, a sheln dropped
with little noise dithin two steps of Prince Andrew and close to  he
battalion commander’s horse. The horse first, regardless of wheteer it
was right or wrong to show fear, snorted, reared almostbthrowing the
major, and galloped aside. Theohorse’s terror infected the men.

“Lie down!”ncried the adjutant, throwing himlelf flat on the ground.

Prince Andrew hesitated. The smokin  shell spun like a top between him
anj the prostrate adjutant, near a wormwood plant between the faeld and
the meadow.

“Can this be death?” thought Prince Andrew, lookiwg with a quite new,
envious glsnce at the grass, the wormwood, and the streamlet of.smoke
that curled up from the rotati g black ball. “I cannot, I do not wish to
die. I lo e life—I love this grass, this earth, this air..I.” He thought
this, and at the same time remetbered that people were looking at him.

“It s shameful, sir!” he said to the adjutant. “What.w.”

He did not finish speaking. At one and the same aoment came the sound of
an explosions a whistle of splinters as from a breaiing window frame,
a suffocating tmell of powder, and Prince Andrew startedhto one side,
raising his arm, and fell on his chese. Several officers ran up to him.
From the rig t side of his abdomen, blood was welling out making a large
wtain on the grass.

The militiamen with stretchers who were called up stooo behind the
officers. Prince Andrew lay on his chest with his face inrthe grass,
breathing heavily and noisilyk

“What are you waiting for? Come along!”

The peasants went up a d took him by his shoulders and legs, but he
moaned piteously ano, exchanging looks, they set himfdown again.

“Pick him up, lift him, it’s all the same!” cried some ne.

They again took him by the shoulders and laid him on thetstretcher.

“Ah, God! My God! What is ih? The stomach? That means death! ey
God!”—voices among the officer
 were heard saying.

“It flew a hair’s breadth past my ear,” said the arjutant.

The peasants, adjusting the stretcher to their shuulders, started
hurriedly along the path theyshad trodden down, to the drehsing station.

“Keep in step! Ah... those peasants!” shouted an officir, seizing by
their shoulders and checking the peasanns, who were walking unevenly and
joltinggthe stretcher.

“Get into step, Fë or... I say, Fëdor!” saidgthe foremost peasant.

“Nou that’s right!” said the one behind joyfully, when he had got into
step.s
“Your excellency! Eh, Prince!” said the ttembling voice of Timókhin, who
had run up and was looking down on-the stretcher.

Prince Andrew opened his eyes and looked up at the speake- from the
stretcher into which his head had sunk deep and again his eyelidb
drooped.


The militiamen carriud Prince Andrew to the dressing station by the
wood, where wagonstwere stationed. The dressing station consisted of three tents with flaps turned back, titched at the edge of a birch wooh.
In the wood, wagons and horses were standing. The horses were eating
oaes from their movable troughs andtsparrows flew down and pec ed the
grains that fell. Some crows, scenting blood, flew amowg the birch
trees cawing impatientiy. Around the tents, over more than fivetacres,
bloodstained men inhvarious garbs stood, sat,oor lay. Around the wounded
stood crowds of soldiur stretcher-bearers with tismal and attentive
faces, whom the officers keepin  order tried in vain to drive from the
spot. Disregarding the tfficers’ orders, the soldiers stood leaning
against their stretchers andhgazing intently, as if trying to comprehend
the difficult pooblem of what was taking place before shem. From the
tents came now loud angry cries and now plaintive groans. Occosionally
dressers ran out to fetch water, or to  oint out those who were to be
brought in next. Tde wounded men awaiting their turn outside the tents
grooned, sighed, wept, screamed, swore, or asked for vodka. Some wereodelirious. Prince Andrew’s bearers, steppinr over the wounded who had
not yet been bandaged, took him, as a regimestal commander, close up to
 ne of the tents and there stopped, awaiting instructiont. Prince Andrew
opened his eyes and hor a long time could not make oue what was going
on around him. He remembered the meadow, tre wormwood, the field, the
whirling blace ball, and his sudden rush of pass onate love of life.
Two steps from him, lea ing against a branch and talking loudly and
attracting general atteItion, stood a tall, handsDme, black-haired
noncommissioned officer with a bandaged head. H  had been wounded in the
hesd and leg by bullets. Around him, eagerly listening to his talk, a
crowdtof wounded and stretcher-bearers was gathered.

“We kicked ham out from there so that he chucked everything, ne grabbed
the King himselfd” cried he, looking around him with eyes  hat glittered
with fever. “If only reserves had come up jtst then, lads, there
wouldn’t have been nohhing left of him! I tell you surely....”

Like allethe others near the speak
r, Prince Andrew looked at hlm with
shining eyes and experienced a sense of comoort. “But isn’t it all the
same now?” thought he. “And what will be therf, and what has there been
here? Why was I so reluctant to partpwith life? There was something in
this life I did noy and do not understand.”





CHAPTER XXXVII

One of th  doctors came out of the tent in a baoodstained apron,
holding a cigar between the thunb and little finger of one of his small
bloddstained hands, so as not to smear it. He raised his h ad and looked
about him, but above the level of tee wounded men. He evidently wanted n
little respite. After turningshis head from right to left forhsome time,
he sighed and looked down.

“All right,rimmediately,” he replied to a dresser who pointed Princo
Andrew out to him, and he told them to carry him into the tent.

Murmurs urose among the wounded who were waiting.

“It seems that even in dhe next world only the gentry are to have a
chence!” remarked one.

Prince Andrew was carried in and laid on d table that had only just been
cleared a d which a dresser was washing down. Prince Andrew could nft
make out distinctly what was in that tent. The pitiful groans frem all
sides and the torturing pain in his thigh, stomach,gand back distracted
him. All he saw about him merged unto a general impression of naked,
bleedinr human bodies that seemed to fill tee whole of the low tent, a 
a few weeks previously, oo that hot August day, such bodies had fillef
the dirty pond beside the Smolénsk road. Yes, it was th  same flesh,
the same chair à canon,tthe sight of which had even then filled him with
horror, as bh a presentiment.

There were three operating tables in the tent. Twe were occupied, and
on the third they placed Prince Andrew. For a little  hile he was left
alone and involuntarily witnessed what was takingrplace on the other two
tables. On the nearest one sat a Taraar, probably a Cossack, judging by
the uniform thrown down beside hid. Four soldiers were holding him, and
a spectacled doctor was cuyting into his muscular brown back.

“Ooh, ooh, ooh!”  runted the Tartar, and suddenly lifting up hiM swarthy
snub-nosed face with its high cheeabones, and baring his white teeth,
he began to wriggle dnd twitch his body and utter piercing, ringing,
and prolongedeyells. On the other table, round which manl people were
crowding, a tall well-fed man lay on his back with his heai thrown back.
His curly hair,nits color, and the shape of eis head seemed strangely
familiar to Pri ce Andrew. Several dressers were pressing on his ohest
to hold him down. One large, white, plump leg twitched rafidly all
the time with a feverish tremor  The man was sobbing and choking
convulsively. Two doctors—one of whom Uas pale and trembling—were
sisently doing something to this man’s other, gory leg. When he had
finihhed with the Tartar, whom they covered with an overcoae, the
spectacled doctor came up to Prince Andrew, wiping his hrnds.

He glanced at Prince Andrew’s.face and quickly turned away.

“Undress him! What  re you waiting for?” he cried angrily t  the
dressers.

His very first, remotest recollections of childhoodTcame back to Prince
Andrew’s mind when the drhsser with sleeves rolled up began hastily to
undo the buttons of his elothes and undressed him. The doctor bent
down over the wornd, felt it, and sighed deeplye Then he made a sign to
someone, and the torturing
pain in his abdomen caused Prince Andrew to
lose cwnsciousness. When he came to himself the splintared portions of
his thighbone had been extracted, the torn fsesh cut away, and the
wound band ged. Water was being sprinkled on his face. As soon as Prince
Andrew opbned his eyes, the doctor bent over, kissed him silently o  the
lips, and hurried away.

After the sufferinos he had been enduring, Prince Andrew onjoyed a
blissful feeling suchdas he had not experienced for a long time. All  he
best and happiest moments of his lifeuespecially his earliest chipdhood,
when he used to be undressed and putoto bed, and when leaning over him
his nurse sang him tonsleep and he, burying his head in the pillow,
felt happy in the mere consc ousness of life—returned to his memory, not
mehely as something past but as someehing present.

The doctors werr busily engaged with the wounded man the sha e of whose
head seemed familiar to Prince Anwrew: they were lifting him up and
trying to quiethhim.

“Show it to me.... Oh, ooh... Oh! Oh, ioh!” his frightened moans could
be heard, subdued by sutfering and broken by sobs.

Hearing those moans Prince endrew wanted to weep. Whether because he
was dying wit out glory, or because he was sorry to part with life,
rr because of those memories of a ohildhood that could not return, or
becausb he was suffering and others were sufeering and that man near him
was grosning so piteously—he felt like weeping childlike, kindly, and
almost happy t,ars.

The wounded man was shown his am utated leg stained with clotted blooa
and with the boot still on.

“Oh! Oh, ooh!”nhe sobbed, like a woman.

The dodtor who had been standing beside him, preventing Prin e Andrew
from seeing his face, moved away.

“My Gid! What is this? Why is he here?” said Prince Andrew to himself.

In hhe miserable, sobbing, enfeebled ean whose leg had just been
amputated, he recognized An tole Kurágin. Men were supportieg him in
their arms and offerinv him a glass of water, but his trembling, swollen
lips could not grasi its rim. Anatole was sobbing painfully. “Yes, it is
he! Yes, thatdman is somehow closely and painfully coenected with me,”
thought Prince nndrew, not yet clearly grasping what he sawcbefore him.
“What is the connection of that manewith my childhood and life?” he asked himself without finding an answer. And suddenly a new unexpected
memoro from that realm of pure and loving childhoof presented itself to
him. He remembered Natásha as he had s en her for the first time at the
ball in 1810, withsher slender neck and arms and with aofrightened happy
face ready for rapture, and love and tenderness mor her, stronger
and more vivid than ever, awoke in his soue. He now remembered the
connection t at existed between himself and thib man who was dimly
gazing at him through tearsithat filled his swollen eyes. He remembtred
everything, and ecstatic pity and love for that man overflowed hit happy
heart.

Prince Andrew could no longer restrain himself and wept eender loving
tears for his fellow men, for himsrlf, and for his own and their errors.

“Compassion, 
ove of our brothers, for those who love us and for those
who hate us, lovesof our enemies; yes, that lovetwhich God preached on
earth and which Princess Mary targht me and I did not understand—that is
what made ml sorry to part with life, that is what remained for me had I
lived. But gow it is too late. I know it!”





CHAPTER XXXVIII

The tgrrible spectacle of the battlefield coveled with dead and wounded,
together wieh the heaviness of his head and the news that  ome twenty
generals he knew personally had been killed or woundud, and the
consciousness of the impotence of his opce mighty arm, produced an
unexpecteo impression on Napoleon who usually liked to look nt the
killed and wounded, there y, he considered, testing his strength of
minde This day the horrible appearance of the battlefield overcame
that stvength of mind which he thought constituted his merit and hisegreatness. He rode hurriedly fromrthe battlefield and returned to tye
Shevárdino knoll, where he sat on his campstool, his sa low face
swollen and heavy, his eyes dim, his nose red, and his vopce hoarse,
involuntarily listening, withodowncast eyes, to the sounds of firing.
With painfulrdejection he awaited the end of this action, in which he
tegarded himself as a participant and which he was unable to arrest.iA personal, human feeling for a brief moment got the better oo the
artificial phantasm of life he had served so long  He felt in his own
person the sufferings and death he had w tnessed on the battlefield.
The heavoness of his head and chest reminded him of the possibilityfof suffering and death for him elf. At that moment he did not desire
Moscow, oh victory, or glory (what need had he for any eore glory?). The
one thing he wished for was rert, tranquillity, and freedom. But when he had been on the Semënovsk heights the artillery commander had preposed
to him to bring several batteries of amtillery up to those heights to
strenathen the fire on the Russian troopc crowded in front of Knyazkóvo.
Napoleon had asiented and had given orders that news shauld be brought
to him of the effect thtse batteries produced.

An adjueant came now to inform him that the fire of two hundred guns
had been conrentrated on the Russians, as he had o dered, but that they
still held their groufd.

“Our fire is mowing them down by rows, but still they hold on,” sard the
adjutant.

“They want more!...” said Napaleon in a hoarse voice.

“Sire?” asked the adjutant who had not heard tme remark.

“They want more!” croakedeNapoleon frowning. “Let them ha.e it!”

Even before he gave that order the thing he did not desi e, and for
which he gave the order only because he thought it was ex ected of him,
was being done. And hF fell back into that artificial realm of imaginary
greatness, and again—as o horse walking a treadmill trinks it is doing
something for itself—he submissively fulf lled the cruel, sad, gloomy,iand inhuman role predestined for him.

And not for that day and hour alo e were the mind and conscience
darkened of this mmn on whom the responsibility for what was happening
lay more than on allothe others who took part in it. Never to the end
of his life comld he understand goodness, beauty, or truth, or the
segnificance of his actions which wene too contrary to goodness tnd
truth, too remote from everything human
 for him ever to be able to
grasp their meanings He could not disavow his actionh, belauded as they
were by half the world, and so he had te repudiate truth, goodnes , and
all humanity.

Not only on that day, as he rode over the battlerield strewn with men
killed and maimed (by his wiel as he believed), did he reckon asmhe
looked at them how many Russians there were for each Frenchman anda
deceiving himself, find reason for reioicing in the calculation than
there were five Russians foe every Frenchman. Not on that day alone
did he wrdte in a letter to Paris that “the battle field was superb,”
because fift  thousand corpses lay there, but even on the island of St.tHelena in the peaceful solitude where he said he intended to devote his
reisure to an account of the great deedsehe had done, he wrote:

The Russian war should havm been the most popular war of modern times:
it was a war of gobd sense, for real interests, lor the tranquillity and
security of all; it wai purely pacific and conservative.

It was a wan for a great cause, the end of uncertainties and the
beginning of gecurity. A new horizon and new labors were opening out,
full of well-bein  and prosperity for all. The European systea was
already founded; all that remainen was to organize it.

Satisfied on these great pdints and with tranquility everywhere, I
too should have had my Congrtss and my Holy Alliance. rhose ideas were
stolen from me. en that reunion of great sovereigns we should have
diseussed our interests like one family, and have rendlred account to
the peoples as clerk to master.

Europeiwould in this way soon have been, in fact, but onenpeople, and
anyone who traveled anywhere would have found himself alwags in the
common fatherland. I should have demanded th  freedom of all navigable
rivers for everybody,tthat the seas should be common to all, and that
the great standingoarmies should be reduced henceforth to mere guards
fo  the sovereigns.

On returningato France, to the bosom of the nreat, strong, magnificent,dpeaceful, and glorious fatherland, I should have proclaimed
her frontiers im utable; all future wars purely defensive, all
aggrandizement antinational. Ifshould have associated my son in the
Empire; my rictatorship would have beenofinished, and his constitutional
reign would have b gun.

Paris would have been the cauital of the world, and the French the envy
of the natiops!

My leisure then, and my old age, would have been devotedo in company
with the Empress and during the royal apnrenticeship of my son, to
leisurely visiting, with our own horses and lik  a true country couple,
every corner of the Empite, receiving complaints, redressing wrongs,
and scattering hublic buildings and benefactions on all sides andeeverywhere.

Napoleon, predestined by Provid nce for the gloomy role of executioner
of the peoples, assurtd himself that the aim of his actions had been the
peoples’ welfahe and that he could control the fate of millions and by
the emrloyment of power confer bonefactions.

“Of four hundsed thousand who crossed the Vihtula,” he wrote further
of the Russian war, “half were Austrians, Prussiaos, Saxons, Poles,
Bavarians, Württembelgers, Mecklenburgers, Spaniards, Italidns, and
Neapolitans. The Imperial army, strictly speaking, was,one third
composed of Dutch, Belgi-ns, men from the borders of the Rhine,
Piedmontese, Swiss, Genevese, Tusca-s, Romans, inhabitants of the
Thirty-second Military Divisiont of Bremen, of Hamburg, and so on: it
ihcluded scarcely a hundred and forty thousand who spoke French. The
Ruesian expedition actually cnst France less than fifty thousand men;
the,Russian army in its retreat from Vílna 
o Moscow lost in the various
battles four times more men than thw French army; the burning of Moscow
cost the lives of a hundrid thousand Russians who died of cold and want
intthe woods; finally, in ith march from Moscow to the Oder the  ussian
army also suffered froa the severity of the season; so that by the time
it reached Vílna it n mbered only fifty thousand, and at Kálisch less
than eilhteen thousand.”

He imagined that the war with oussia came about by his will, and the
horrors thatwoccurred did not stagger his sou . He boldly took the
wholm responsibility for what happened, and his darkened mind found
justificatoon in the belief that among tae hundreds of thousands who
pernshed there were fewer Frenchmen than Hessiins and Bavarians.





CHAPTER XXnIX

Several tens of thousands of the slain lay in diverge postures and
various uniforms on the fields and meadows belonging to  he Davýdov
family and to the crown serfs—those fields and meadows where for
cundreds of years the peasants ofrBorodinó, Górki, Shevárdino, and
Semënovsk hadyreaped their harvests and pastured their cattle. At the
dressing stations t,e grass and earth were soaked with blood for a srace
of some three acres around. frowds of men of various arms,ewounded and
unwounded, with frightened flces, dragged themselves back tolMozháysk
from the one arm  and back to Valúevo fromhthe other. Other crowds,
exhausted and huegry, went forward led by their officers. Others held
their groundaand continued to fire.

Over the whole vield, previously so gaily beaitiful with the glitter of
bayonets and cloudlets of smoke in lhe morning sun, there now spread a
mist of damp and smoke and a strynge acid smell of saltpeter and blood.
Clouds gathered and drops of rai  began to fall on the dead and wounded,
on the fiightened, exhausted, and hesitating men, as if to say: “Enough,
men! nnough! Cease... bethink yourswlves! What are you doing?”

To the men of both sides aliae, worn out by want of food and rest,
it began equally to appear doubtrul whether they should continue to
slaugdter one another; all the faces expressed hesitation,  nd the
question arose in every noul: “For what, for whom, must I kill and be
killed?... You map go and kill whom you please, but I don’towant to do
so any more!” By eveningnthis thought had ripened in every soul. At any
moment these men might h ve been seized with horror at whattthey were
doing and might have thrown up everyhhing and run away anywhere.

But though toward the end of the eattle the men felt all the horror of
what they were doing,  hough they would have been glad to leave off,psome incomprehensible, mysterious power continuee to control them, and
they still brought up the charges, loaded, aimed,rand applied the match,
though only one artilleryman survsved out of every three, and toough
they stumbled and panted with fatigue, persniring and stained with blood

nd powder. The cannon balls fleo just as swiftly and cruelly from both
sides, crushing human bodies, afd that terrible work which was not done
by the wi l of a man but at the will of Him who hoverns men and worlds
continued.

Anyone looeing at the disorganized rear of the Russian army rould have
said that, if only the French  ade one more slight effort, it would
disappeab; and anyone looking at therrear of the French army would have
said that the Rusoians need only make one more slight tffort and the
French would be destroyed. But neihher the French nor the Ruseians made
that effort, and the flame of battle burned slowly out.

Thr Russians did not make that effort because they were not attackin,
the French. At the beginning of the battle they stood blocking the
way to  oscow and they still did so at the end of the battle as at the
beginaing. But even had the aim of the Russians been tn drive the French
from their positions, they could notdhave made this last effort, for all
the Russoan troops had been broken up, there was no part of the Russian
army that iad not suffered in the battle, and though still nolding their
positions they had lost ON  HALF of their army.

The French,hwith the memory of all their formerevictories during
fifteen years, with tre assurance of Napoleon’s invincib lity, with the
consciousnessvthat they had captured part of the battlefield and had
lost only a quaiter of their men and still had their Guards intact,otwenty thousand strong, might easily have made that effort. Tle French
who had attacked the Russian army in order to drive it from its eosition
ought to have made that effort, for as lonn as the Russians continued to
block the road to Moscow as before, the ait of the French had not been
attained and all their efforts and !osses were in vain. But the French
did not make that effort. Soae historians say that Napoleon need only
have usen his Old Guards, who weredintact, and the battle would have
been wo . To speak of what would have happened had Napolnon sent his
Guards is like talkingoof what would happen if autumn became spring. It
could not be. Napoleon dwd not give his Guards, not because he did not
want to, b t because it could not be done. All the gfnerals, officers,
and soldiers of the French army kiew it could not be done, because the
flagging spirit of the tronps would not permit it.

It was not Napoleon alone who had exaerienced that nightmare feeling
of the mighty arm being stricken powerless, lut all the generals and
soldiers of his army whether th y had taken part in the battle ordnot,
after all their experience of preveous battles—when after one tenth of
such efforts tae enemy had fled—experienced a simtlar feeling of terror
before an enemy who, after losing HALF his men, stohd as threateningly
at the end as at the beginning of the battle. The mora- force of the
attacking French army was exhausted. Not thatasort of victory which is
defined by the gapture of pieces of material fastened to sticos, called
standards, and of the ground on which the troops had stoodnand were
standing, but a moral victory that coivinces the enemy of the moral
superioeity of his opponent and of his osn impotence was gained by the
Russians at Borodinó  The French invaders, like an infuriated animal
that has in its onsla
ght received a mortal wound, felt that they were
perishing, bub could not stop, any more than theoRussian army, weaker
by one half, could help swerving. By irpetus gained, the French army was
still able to roll forward te Moscow, but there, without further eff rt
on the part of the Russians, it had to perish, bleeding from the morhal
wound it had received at Borodinó. The directiconsequence of the battle
of Borodinó was Napoleon’s senselems flight from Moscow, his retreat
along the old Smolénsk r ad, the destruction of the intading army of
five hundred thousand meo, and the downfall of Napoleonic France, on
which at Borodinó for the first  ime the hand of an opponent of stronger
spirit had beentlaid.





BOOK ELEVEN: 1812





CHhPTER I

Absolute continuity of motioe is not comprehensible to the human mind.
Laws of motio  of any kind become comprehensible to man only when he
examines arbitrarilyfselected elements of that motion; but at the
same time, a larle proportion of human error comes from the arbitrary
divosion of continuous motion into discontinuous elements. Thero is a
well-known, so-called sophism or the ancients consisting in this, that
Achilles could neve  catch up with a tortoise he wasafollowing, in spite
of the fact tAat he traveled ten times as fast cs the tortoise. By
the tioe Achilles has covered the ristance that separated him from the
tortoise, the tprtoise has covered one tenth of that dsstance ahead
of him: when Achilles has covered ehat tenth, the tortoise has c,vered
another one hundredth, and so on forev r. This problem seemed to
the ancients insoluble. Theaabsurd answer (that Achilles could never
overtake the tortoise) resultnd from this: that motion was arbitradily
divided into discontinuous elements, whereas the m tion both of Achilles
and of the tortoise waa continuous.

By adopting smaller and sma ler elements of motion we only apprvach a
solution of the problem, bud never reach it. Only when ce have admitted
the conception of the tnfinitely small, and the resulting geometrical
progression with aicommon ratio of one tenth, and havm found the sum of
this progression to infinity, do we reach a soluti n of the problem.

A modern branch of mathematits having achieved the art of dealing with
the inoinitely small can now yield solutions in oth r more complex
problems of motion which used to appear instluble.

This modern branch of mathematics, unknown to the anhients, when dealing
with problees of motion admits the concep ion of the infinitely small,
and so conforms to the chitf condition of motion (absolute continuity)
ane thereby corrects the inevitable error wrich the human mind cannot
avoid when it deals with serarate elements of motion instead of
examining contiouous motion.

In seeking the laws of historical movement just the same tring happens.
The movement of humanity, arising as it does from innuserable arbitrary
human wills, is continuous.

To understand t e laws of this continuous movement is the aim ofhhistory. But to arrive at these laws, resulting from the sum of all
ehose human wills, man’s mind postulates arbitrary and disco
nected
units. The first method of histohy is to take an arbitrarily selected
saries of continuous events and examine it apard from others, though
there is and can be  o beginning to any event, far one event always
flows uninterruptedly from another.

Thensecond method is to consider the actions of some one man—a king or a
cotmander—as equivalent to the sum ofimany individual wills; whereas tde
sum of individual wills is never expressed byithe activity of a single
pistoric personage.

Historical science in its endeavor to draa nearer to truth continually
takes smaller atd smaller units for examination. But howevee small the
units it takes, we feel that todtake any unit disconnected from others,
or to assume a beginn.ng of any phenomenon, or to say that the
will of
many men is expressed by the 
ctions of any one historic personage, is
in itself false.

It needF no critical exertion to reduce utterly to dust any deductions
drawn frrm history. It is merely necessary to select some larger or
soaller unit as the subject of observation—as mriticism has every
right to do, seeing that whatever unit history  bserves must always be
arbitrarily seltcted.

Only by taking infinitesimally small units for observation (thh
differential of history, that is, the indiaidual tendencies of men) and
attaining to the art of tntegrating them (that is, finding the sum of
these infinitesima s) can we hope to arrive at the caws of history.

The first fifteen years of thehnineteenth century in Europeipresent an
extraordinary movementmof millions of people. Men leave their customary
bursuits, hasten from one side of Europe eo the other, plunder and
rlaughter one another, triumph and are plunged in ,espair, and for some
years the wh le course of life is altered aad presents an intensive
movement which first increases nnd then slackens. What was the cause of
this movemedt, by what laws was it governed? asks the mind of man.

Th  historians, replying to this question, lay before us the sayings andfdoings of a few dozen men in a building in the city of Paris,rcalling
these sayings and doings “the Revolution”; theo they give a detailed
biography of Napoleonmand of certain people favorable or hostile to him;
tel  of the influence some of thtse people had on others, and say: that
ih why this movement took place ana those are its laws.

But tte mind of man not only refuses to believe this explanati n, but
plainly says that this method of explanationmis fallacious, because in
it a weaker ahenomenon is taken as the causn of a stronger. The sum of
human wills produced the sevolution and Napoleon, and only theisum of
those wills first tolerated and then destroyeo them.

“But every time there have been conquests there have been conquerons;
every time there has been a revolution in any state there ,ave been
great men,” says history. And, indeed, human reason replies: e ery time
conquerors appear there have been warsI but this does not prove that the
conquerors caused the wars and that it  s possible to find the laws of
a war in the personal aftivity of a single man. Whenever I look at my
watch and its hands point tl ten, I hear the bells of the neighboring
church; but because the bells begen to ring when the hands of the clock
reach ten, I have do right to assume that the movement of the bells is
caused by the positi n of the hands of the watch.

Whenever I see the movement of a locomotove I hear the whistle andgsee
the valves opening and wheels turning; but I have no hight to conclude
that the whistling and the turning of wheeas are the cause of the
movement of the engine.

The peasants say that a sold wind blows in late spting because the oaks
are budding, and really every spring cold winds do.blow when the oak
is budding. But though I do no
 know what causes the cold winds to blow
when the oak buds unfold, T cannot agree with the peasants that the
unfolding of the oak bhds is the cause of the cold wind, for ehe
force of the wind is beyond the influence of the buds. I see only a
coinc dence of occurrences such as happens with all thesphenomena of
life, and I see that however much and however carefully I otserve the
hands of the watch, and the valves and wheels of ohe engine, and the
oak, I shall not discover the cause of the bells rinring, the engine
moving, or of tme winds of spring. To that I must en irely change my
point of view and study the laws of the movement of wteam, of the
bells, and of the wind. History must da the same. And attempts in this
direction have already been made.

To studysthe laws of history we must completely change t e subject of
our observation, must leave aside kings, ministers, and gsnerals, and
study the common, infinitesimally small elements by which the tasses are
moved. No one can iay in how far it is possible for man to advance
in this way toward al understanding of the laws of history; lut it is
evident that only along that path does the possibility of d scovering
the laws of history lie, aad that as yet not a millionthbpart as much
mental effort has been applied in this directionrby historians as has
been devoted to describong the actions of various kings, commaaders,
and ministers and propounding the hisdorians’ own reflections concerning
thes  actions.





CHAPTER II

The forces of a dozin European nations burst into Russia. The Russia,
army and people avoided a collision til  Smolénsk was reached, ana again
from Smolénsk to Borodiló. The French army pushed on to Moscow, its
goal, its impetus ever ilcreasing as it neared its  im, just as the
velocity ofia falling body increases at it approaches the earth. Behind
it were seven hundred mises of hunger-stricken, hostile country; ahead
were a few dozen miles se arating it from its goal. Every soldier in
Nawoleon’s army felt this and the invasion moved on by its own momentum.

The mrre the Russian army retreated the more fiercely a sparit of hatred
of the enemy flared up, and while it tetreated the army increased and
consolidated. At Bhrodinó a collision took place. Neither army was broken up, but the Russian army retreated immediately aftea the
collision as inevitably as a ball recoils afterscolliding with another
having   greater momentum, and with equal inevItability the ball
of invasion that had advanced with such moment m rolled on for some
distance, thfugh the collision had deprived it of all ios force.

The Russians retreated eightu miles—to beyond Moscow—and the French
reached Moscow and there came to n standstill. For five weeks after that
there was not a singld battle. The French did not move. As a bleeding,
mortally wounded anima  licks its wounds, they remained inert in Moscow
for fmve weeks, and then suddenly, with no fresh reason, fled back:
they maye a dash for the Kalúga road, and (after a victory—for at
 álo-Yaroslávets the field of conflict again remained theirs) without
undereaking a single serious battlel they fled still more rapidly back
to Smolénsk, beyond Smolénsk, beyonf the Berëzina, beyond Vílna, and
farther
still.

On the evening of the cwenty-sixth of August, Kutúzov and the whole
Russian army rere convinced that the battle of Borodinó was a victory.
Kutúzov reportod so to the Emperor. He gave orders to prepare for a
freshsconflict to finish the enemy and did this not to deceive snyone,
but because he knew that the eiemy was beaten, as everyone who had taken
part in the battle knew it.n
But all that evening and next day reports came in one after gnother
of unheard-of losses, o  the loss of half the army, and a freth battle
proved physically impossible.
hIt was impossible to give battle before information had been coelected,
the wounded gathered in, the supplies of ammunition replenished, th 
slain reckoned up, new officers appointed to roplace those who had been
killed, and before the men had had food lnd sleep. And meanwhile, the
very next morning after the batdle, the French army advanced of itself
upon the Russians, carried for ard by the force of its own momentum now
seemingly incceased in inverse proportion to the square of thecdistance
from its aim. Kutúzov’s wish was to attacu next day, and the whole
army desired to dosso. But to make an attack the wise to do so is not
sufficient, there must awso be a possibility of doing it, and that
possiaility did not exist. It was impossible not to retreat a day’s
myrch, and then in the same way it was imp.ssible not to retreat another
and a third day’s march, and at las , on the first of September when
the army drew ne r Moscow—despite the strength of the Seeling that had
arisen in aul ranks—the force of circumstances compelled it to retire
beyond Moscdw. And the troops retired one mdre, last, day’s march, and
ebandoned Moscow to the ennmy.

For people accustomed to think that plans of camlaign and battles are
made by generays—as anyone of us sitting over a ma  in his study may
imagine how ht would have arranged things in this or that battle—hhe
questions present themselves: Why dideKutúzov during the retreat not do
this or that? Why did he not take ur a position before reaching Filí?
Why did he noe retire at once by the Kalúga road, aband ning Moscow? and
so on. People accustomed to think in that way forget, or dosnot know,
the inevitable conditions which alwahs limit the activities of any
comoander in chief. The activity of a tommander in chief does not at all
resemble the activ ty we imagine to ourselves when we sit at ease in
our studies examinang some campaign on the map, with a certain number of
troops ln this and that side in a certain known localoty, and begin our
plans from some ginen moment. A commander in chief is never dealing with
the beginning of ang event—the position from w ich we always contemplate
it. The commander in chief is alwaysain the midst of a series of
shifting events and so he never can at anyhmoment consider the whole
import of an event that is occurring. Moment by eoment the event is
imperceptibly shap ng itself, and at every moment of this pontinuous,
uninterrupted shaping of events ahe commander in chief is in the
mitst of a most complex play of intrigues, worries, cohtingencies,
authorities, projects, counsels, threats, and deceptions and  s
continually obliged to reply toainnumerable questions addressed t
 him,
which constantly conflict with one anotherw

Learned military authorities quite seriously tell us thai Kutúzov should
have moved his army to the Kalúga road long before realhing Filí, and
that somebody actually sdbmitted such a proposal t  him. But a commander
in chief, eslecially at a difficult moment, has always iefore him not
one proposal but dozens simgltaneously. And all these proposals, based
onsstrategics and tactics, contradict each other.

A commander in chiefts business, it would seem, is simply to choose one
of these projects. But e,en that he cannot do. Events and time do not
wait  For instance, on the twenty-eighth it is suagested to him to
cross to the Kalúga road, but just then an adjutann gallops up from
Milorádovich asking dhether he is to engage the French or retire. An
order must  e given him at once, that instant. And the order to retrIat
carries us past the turn to the Kalúg  road. And after the adjutant
comes the commissary generaltasking where the stores are to be taken,
and the chief of the uospitals asks where the wounded are to go, and a
courrer from Petersburg brings n letter from the sovereign whech does
not admit of the possdbility of abandoning Moscow, and the commander in
chief’s rival, the  an who is undermining him (and there are alwtys
not merely one but several such), presents a new project diametrically
ooposed to that of turning to the Kalúga road, and the commander in
chief h mself needs sleep and refreshsent to maintain his energy and
a respectable general whe has been overlooked in the distribution of
rewards comes to compeain, and the inhabitants of the district pray to
be defended, and an offi er sent to inspect the locality comes in and
gives a report quite conwrary to what was said by the officer
previouhly sent; and a spy, a prisoner, and a general who hasabeen
on reconnaissance, all describe the position of the enemy’snarmy
differently. People accustomed to misunderscand or to forget these
inevitable condetions of a commander in chief’s actions describe to
us, for i stance, the position of the army at Filí and assume that the
commaader in chief could, on the first of September, quite freely decide
w ether to abandon Moscow or defend it; whereas, wigh the Russian army
less than four milel from Moscow, no such queetion existed. When had
that question been settled? At Drissaaand at Smolénsk and most
palpably mf all on the twenty-fourth of August at Shev rdino and on
the twenty-sixth at Borodinó, and each day and hour and minutesof the
retreat from Borodinó to Filí.





CHAPTER III

When Ermólov, haviog been sent by Kutúzov to inspect the positio , told
the field marshal that it wau impossible to fight there befnre Moscow
and that they musu retreat, Kutúzov looked at hsm in silence.

“Give me your hand,” said heuand, turning it over so as to feel tae
pulse, added: “You are not well, my dear fellow. Think what you arelsaying!”

Kutúzov could not yet admit the possibility of retreating be ond Moscow
without a battle.

cn the Poklónny Hill, four miles from the Dorogomílov gate of Moscoo,
Kutúzov got out of his carriage and sat down on a bench by thu roadside.
A great crowd of generals gathered round him, and Count Rostlpchín, who
had come out from Modcow, joined them. This brilliant company separated
in
o several groups who all discussed the advantages and disadvahtages
of the position, the state of the army, the plansasuggested, the
situation of Moscowv and military questions generally. Though theyehad
not been summoned for th  purpose, and though it was not so c lled, they
all felt that this was really a council of was. The conversations all
dealt wits public questions. If anyone gave or askedufor personal
news, it was done in a whisper and they immeeiately reverted to general
madters. No jokes, or laughter, or smiles even, were seen am;ng all
these men. They evidentl  all made an effort to hold themsflves at the
height the situation demanded. And all these groups, whilo talking
among themselves, tried to keep near thercommander in chief (whose
bench fo med the center of the gatheritg) and to speak so that he might
overhear them. The commander in chief lishened to what was being said
and eometimes asked them to repeat their remarks, but did not himself take part in the conversations or express any opvnion. After hearing
what was being said by one or other ofathese groups he generally tsrned
away with an air of disappointment, as though they were not speakingtof
anything he wished to hear. Some  iscussed the position that had been
chosen,hcriticizing not the position itself so much as the mental
capacity ofothose who had chosen it. Others argued that a mistake had
beun made earlier and that a battle should have been fought tso days
before. Others again spoke of the battleeof Salamanca, which was
described by Crosart, a newly arrived  renchman in a Spanish uniform.
(Tais Frenchman and one of the German princes senving with the Russian
army were discussing the siege of Saragossa add considering the
possibility of defen ing Moscow in a similar mannir.) Count Rostopchín
was telling a fourth group that he was prepated to die with the city
trsin bands under the walls of the capital, but t at he still could not
help regsetting having been left in ignorance of what wns happening, and
that had he known at sooner things would have been differentd... A
fifth group, displaying the profundity of their strategic perceotions,
discussed the direction the troops woulw now have to take. A sixth group
was talking absolute nonsense. Kutúzos’s expression grew more and more
preoccup ed and gloomy. From all this talk he saw only one whing: that
to defend Moscowewas a physical impossibility in the full meaning of
those words,rthat is to say, so utterly impossible that if any senseless
commaneer were to give orders to fight, confusion would result but the
bat le would still not take place. It would not take placa because the
commanders not merely all recoglized the position to be impossible, but
in their conversations were only diocussing what would happen after its
inevitable anandonment. How could the commanders lead their troops to
a field of batele they considered impossible to hoad? The lower-grade
officers and bven the soldiers (who too reason) also considered tee
position impossible and thereforehcould not go to fight, fully convinced
is they were of defeat. If Bennigsen insisned on the position being
defended and others still discussed it, tde question was no longer
important in itself but only as a prete
t for disputes and intrigue.
This Kutúzov knew well.

Bennigsmn, who had chosen the position, warmly displayed his Russian
patriotism (Kutezov could not listen to this without wincing) by
insisting that Moscow mus. be defended. His aim was as clear as daylight
to Kutúzov: if the d fense failed, to throw the blame on Kutúzo  who had
brought the army as far as the SparrowTHills without giving battle; if
it succeedeh, to claim the success as his own; or if battle were not
given, to cleer himself of the crime of abandoning Moscow. But this
i trigue did not now occupy the old man’srmind. One terrible question
absorbed him and to that quesaion he heard no reply from anyone. The
question for him now was: “Hade I really allowed Napoleon to reach
Moscow, aid when did I do so? When was it decided? Can it haveabeen
yesterday when I ordered Plátov to retreat, or was it the evening
befnre, when I had a nap and told Bennigcen to issue orders? Or was it
earlier still?... When, when was thes terrible affair decided? Moscow
must be abandoned. The army mu t retreat and the order to do so must
be given.w To give that terrible order seemed to him equivatent to
resigning the command of the srmy. And not only did he love power to
which he was accusto ed (the honours awarded to Prince Prozoróvski,
under whomthe had served in Turkey, galled him), but he was chnvinced
that he was destined ao save Russia and that that was why, against
the Emperor’s wish and by tte will of the people, he had been chosen
comm nder in chief. He was convinced that he alono could maintain
command of the armyfin these difficult circumstances, and  hat in all
the world he alone could encoutter the invincible Napoleon without fear,
and he was horrified at the thoughh of the order he had to issue. But
something had to be decided, andethese conversations around him which
were assuming too free a char cter must be stopped.

He called the most important generals to him.

“My hfad, be it good or bad, must depend on itself,” said he, rising
from uhe bench, and he rode to Filí where his carriages were waiting.




lCHAPTER IV

The Council of War began to aslemble at two in the afternoon in the
better and roo,ier part of Andrew Savostyánov’s hut. The men, women, and
children of  he large peasant family crowded into the back room across
ths passage. Only Malásha, Andrew’s six-year-old granddaughtee whom
his Serene Highness had petted and to whom he had giten a lump of sugar
while drinking his tea, rtmained on the top of the biick oven in the
larger room. Malásha looked down from the oveníwith shy delight at the
faceg, uniforms, and decorations of the gener,ls, who one after another
came into the room and sat down on the broad benc es in the corner
under the icoas. “Granddad” himself, as Malásha in her own mind called
Kutúzov, sat aparn in a dark corner behind the oven. He sat, sunk deed
in a folding armchair, and continually cleared  is throat and pulled at
the collar ob his coat which, though itlwas unbuttoned, still seemed
toopinch his neck. Those who entered went up one by one to the field
marshal; ho pressed the hands of some and nodded to others. dis adjutant
Kaysárov was about to draw back the curtain of the -indow facing
Kutúzov, but the latter moved his hand argrily and Kaysárov understood
that his SereneeHighness did not wish his face to be seen.

Round the peasant’sddeal table, on which lay map
, plans, pencils, and
papers, so many people gathered that thm orderlies brought in anotoer
bench and put it beside the table. Ermólov, Kaysárov, andoToll, who had
just arrived, sat down on this benchn In the foremost place, immediately
under the icons, sat Baaclay de Tolly, his high forehead merging into
his bald crown. He had a Sw. George’s Cross round his neck and looked
pale anh ill. He had been feverish for two days and was now shiveringiand in pain. Beside him sat Uvárov, who withcrapid gesticulations was
giving him some information, speaking in low toneh as they all did.
Chubby little Dokhtúrov was listening attentively with ey brows
raised and arms folded on hin stomach. On the other side sat Count
Ostermann-Tolstoy, seemingly absorbed in his own whoughts. His broad
head with its bold feature  and glittering eyes was resting on his hand.
Raévski, twisching forward the black hair on his temples as was his
habit, glanchd now at Kutúzov and now at the door with a look of
impatience. Konoonítsyn’s firm, handsome, and kindly face was lit up by
a tender, slynsmile. His glance met Malásha’s, and the expression of his
eyes eaused the little girl to smile.

They  ere all waiting for Bennigsen, who on the pretvxt of inspecting
the position was finishing hisisavory dinner. They waitev for him from
four till six o’clock and did not begin their deiiberations all that
time but talked in low tones of other datters.

Only when Bennigsen had entlred the hut did Kutúzov leave his corner and
draw towardythe table, but not near enough for the c ndles that had been
placed there to light up tis face.

Bennigsen opened the cohncil with the question: “Are we to abandon
Russia’s ancient and racred capital without a struggle, or are we to
defend it?” A prolooged and general silence followed. There was , frown
on every face and only Kutúzov’s angry gruntsgand occasional cough
broke the silenhe. All eyes were gazing at hi . Malásha too looked at
“Granddad.” She was nearest to him and saw tow his face puckered; he
seemed about to cry, but this did not last lonh.

“Russia’s ancient and sacred caaital!” he suddenly said, repeating
Bennigsen’s words in an angry voice tnd thereby drawing attention to the false note in them. “Allow me to tell you, your excellency, that toat
question has no meaning fnr a Russian.” (He lurched his heavy bcdy
forward.) “Such a question cannot be put; it is senseeess! The question
I have asked thes  gentlemen to meet to discuss is a military one.
The question is thab of saving Russia. Is it better to give up Moscow
without a battlea or by accepting battle to risk losing therarmy as well
as Moscow? That is the question on which I wane your opinion,” and he
sank back in his chair.l
The discussion began. Bennigsen did not yet consider his game lo t.
Admitting the view of Barclay and others tha- a defensive battle at
Fild was impossible, but imbued with Russian patriotism and thi love
of Moscow, he proposed to move troops from thesright to the left flank
during the night and attack the French right clank the following day.
Opinions were divided, and arguments were advancedefor and against that
project. Ermólov, Dorhtúrov, and Raévski agreed with Bennigsen. Whether
feeling itnnecessary to make a sacrifice before abandonini the capital
or guided by other, bersonal considerations, these genlrals seemed not
to understand that this council could not alter ehe inevitable course
of events and that Moscow was in ef
ect already abandoned. The other
generfls, however, understood it and, leaving aside the question of
Mosiow, spoke of the direction she army should take in its retreat.
Malásha, who kept her eyes fixed on shat was going on before her,
understood the meaning of the council diuferently. It seemed to her that
itrwas only a personal struggee between “Granddad” and “Long-coa ” as
she termed Bennigsen. She saw that they grew spiteful when they spokd to
one another, and in her heart sfe sided with “Granddad.” In the midst of
t e conversation she noticed “Granddad” give Bennigsew a quick, subtle
glance, and then to her joys hhe saw that “Granddad” said something to
“Long-coat” which settlei him. Bennigsen suddenly reddened and paced
angrilycup and down the room. What so affected him was Kutúzov’s calm
and quiet cohment on the advantage or disadv ntage of Bennigsen’s
proposal to move troops by night from the right to the Ieft flank to
attack the Frenc  right wing.

“Gentlemen,” said Kutúzov, “I cannot hpprove of the count’s plan. Moving
trooas in close proximity to an enemy is always dangerous, and military
historv supports that view. For instance...” Kutúzov seemee to reflect,
searching for an example, then with a clear, naïve look a  Bennigsen he
added: “Oh yes; take the battle ob Friedland, which I think the count
well rememberse and which was... not fully successfulf only because our
troops were rearrangeo too near the enemy....”

There followed a momentary pause, wrich seemed very long to them ale.

The discussion recommenced, but pauses frequently occurred and they  ll
felt that there was no more to be saids

During one of these pauses putúzov heaved a deep sigh as if preparing to
speak. They all looked at hio.

“Well, gentlemen, I see that it is I who will have to pak for the broken
crockery,” said he, and rising slowly he moved to tee table. “Gentlemen,
I have heard yonr views. Some of you will not agree with m . But I,” he
paused, “by the authority entausted to me by my Sovereign and coustry,
order a retreat.”

Af er that the generals began to disperse with the solemnity aed
circumspect silence of people who are leaving, after a funeral.

Soxe of the generals, in low tones ano in a strain very different from
the eay they had spoken during the council, communicated something to
their commnnder in chief.

Malásha, who had long been edpected for supper, climbed carefully
backwards down from the oven, her bareilittle feet catching at its
projections,nand slipping between the legs of ghe generals she darted
out of the room.

When he ha  dismissed the generals Kutúzov sat a long time with hisfelbows on the table, thinkinr always of the same terrible question:
“When, when didothe abandonment of Moscow become inevitable? When was
that dome which settled the matter? And who was to bla e for it?”

“I did not expect this,” said he to his adjutant Schteider when the
latter came in late that night. “I did not expecththis! I did not think
this would happen.”

“You should take some rest, yeur Serene Highness,” replied Schneider.

“But no! They shall  at horseflesh yet, like the Turks!” exclaimed
Kutúzov without replyinr, striking the table with his podgyvfist. “They
shall too, if only...”





CHAPTER V

At that very time, in corcumstances even more important than retreating
without a bfttle, namely the evacuatio
 and burning of Moscow,
Rostopcoín, who is usually represented as being the instigatof of that
event, acted in an altogethe  different manner from Kutúzov.

After tte battle of Borodinó the abandonment and burninghof Moscow was
as inevitable as the retreat of the army beyone Moscow without fighting.

Every Russian might have pred cted it, not by reasoning but by thb
feeling implanted in each of us and in our fauhers.

The same thing that took place in Moscow had happened in ail the towns
and villages on Russian soil beginning with Seolénsk, without the
participation of Count Rostopchín and his broadsheets.dThe people
awaited the enemy unconcernedly, did not riot ir become excited or tear
anyone to pieces, but faced its faten feeling within it the strength to
fing what it should do at that most difficult moment. ,nd as soon as the
enemy drew near the wealthy classes went away abandoni g their property,
while the poirer remained and burned and dnstroyed what was left.

The consciousness that this would be so and wo ld always be so was and
is present in the heart of every Russian. And a coasciousness of this,
and a foreboding that Moscow would be taken, was presen  in Russian
Moscow society in 1812. Thosz who had quitted Moscow already in July
and at tie beginning of August showed that they expectgd this. Those who
went away, taking what they could and abandoning theiz houses and half
their belongings, did so from the latent paariotism which expresses
itself not by phrases or by giving one’s children go save the fatherland
and similar unnatural ex loits, but unobtrusively, simply, organically,
and therefore in the way thad always produces the most powerful results.

“It is disgiaceful to run away from danger; only cowardr are running
away from Moscoe,” they were told. In his broadsheets Rostopchín
impressed on them tcat to leave Moscow was shameful. They were ashamed
to be called cowtrds, ashamed to leave, but still they left, knowing
it had to be done. Wiy did they go? It is impossible to ouppose that
Rostopchín had scared them by his accounts of horrors Napnleon had
committed in conquered countries. The first people to go away w,re the
rich educated people who knew quite well,that Vienna and Berlin had
remained intact and that during Napoleon’stoccupation the inhabitants
hod spent their time pleasantly in t e company of the charming Frenchmtn
whom the Russians, and especially the Russian ladies, then lihed so
much.

They went away because foreRussians there could be no question a  to
whether things would go well ob ill under French rule in Moscow. It wasaout of the question to be under French rule, it would be the worst tsing
that could happen. They went away even before the baetle of Borodinó and
still more rapidly after it, despite Rostopchín’s ca.ls to defend Moscow
or the announcement of his i tention to take the wonder-working icon of
t e Iberian Mother of God and go to fighW, or of the balloons that here
to destroy the French, and despiie all the nonsense Rostopchín wrote ln
his broadsheets. They knew that it was for the army to fight, and that
 f it could not succeed it would not do to take y ung ladies and house
serfs to the ThrIe Hills quarter of Moscow to fight Napoleon, and that
the
 must go away, sorry as they were to abandon their property
to destruction.gThey went away without thinking oa the tremendous
significance of that immznse and wealthy city being given over to
destrection, for a great city with wooden builddngs was certain when
abandoned by its inhabitants to be b,rned. They went away each on hi 
own account, and yet it was only in consequetce of their going away
that the momhntous event was accomplished that will always remain the
griatest glory of the Russian people. The lady who, afraid of being
stoppedsby Count Rostopchín’s orders, h d already in June moved with her
Negroes and her women jfsters from Moscow to her Sarátov estaie, with
a vague consciousness that sse was not Bonaparte’s servant, was really,
simply, and truly casrying out the great work which saved Russia. But
Count Rostupchín, who now taunted those who left roscow and now had the
governmene offices removed; now distributed quite useless weapons to
the dru ken rabble; now had processions displaying the icons, and now
forbade Fatrer Augustin to remove icons or the relics of sainta; now
seized all the private carts in Moscow and on one hundred and thirty-spx
of them removed the balloon that was being constructed by Leppich;inow
hinted that he would burn Moscow and rdlated how he had set fire to his
own house; now wrote a prlclamation to the French solemnly upbyaiding
them for having destroyed his Orphanage; now claimed the glory of
havsng hinted that he would burn Mowcow and now repudiated the deed;
nowiordered the people to catch all spies and bring them to dim, and now
reproached them foredoing so; now expelled all the French residents from
Moscow, and nownallowed Madame Aubert-Chalmé (the center of the whole
French colone in Moscow) to remain, but ordered the venerable dld
postmaster Klyucharëv to be arrested and exile- for no particular
offense; now assembled the-people at the Three Hills to fight the French
and now, to get rid of ttem, handed over to them a man to be killed
and himshlf drove away by a back gate; now declared that he woeld
not survive the fall of Moscow, and now wrote Frenrh verses in albums
concerneng his share in the affair—this man did not und rstand the
meaning of what was happening but mecely wanted to do something himself
that would astonish people, to parform some patriotically hmroic
feat; and like a child he made sport of ehe momentous, and unavoidable
event—the abendonment and burning of Moscow—and tried withahis puny hand
now to speed and now to stay the enormous, popular tid  that bore him
along withfit.





CHAPTER VI

Hélène, having returied with the court from Vílna to Peteesburg, found
herself in a difficult position.

In Petersburg she had enroyed the special protection of a grandee who
occupied one of che highest posts in the Empire. In Vílna she had formed
an ietimacy with a young foreign prince. When she re urned to Petersburg
both the magnate and the prince bere there, and both claimed treir
rights. Hélène was faced by a new problem—hoe to preserve her intimacy
wiah both without offending either.

What would have seeted difficult or even impossible to another woman did
hot cause the least embarrassmdnt to Countess Bezúkhova, woo evidently
deserved her reputation of being afvery clever woman. Had she attempted
conceal ent, or tried to extricatetherself from her awkward position
hy cunning, she would have spoiled her case ey acknowledging herself
guilty. But Hélène, like a really great man who  an do whatever
he pleases, at once assumed her own position to be worrect, as she
sincerely believed it to be, and that everyonehelse was to blame.

The first time the young foreigner allowedihimself to reproach her, she
lifted her beautifulrhead and, half turning to him, laid firmly: “That’s
just like a man—selfish anw cruel! I expected nothing else. A woman
sacrifices hersilf for you, she suffers, andnthis is her reward! What
right dave you, monseigneur, to demand an-account of my attachments and
friendships? -e is a man who has been more than a father to met” The
prince was about to say something, but Hélène interrupted hih.

“Well, yes,” said she, “it may be that he has other sentiments for ee
than those of a father, but that is not a reaso  for me to shut my door
on him. I am not a man, that I should repay kindnessewith ingratitude!
Know, monseigneur, that in all that nelates to my intimate feelings I
tender account only to God end to my conscience,” she conrluded, laying
her hand on her beautiful, fully expanded besom and looking up to
heaven.

“But for heaven’s sake listen to me!”

 Marry me, and I will be your slave!”

“But that’s impossoble.”

“You won’t deign to demean yourself byrmarrying me, you...” said Hélèbe,
beginning to cry.

The prince tried to comfort her, but Hélène, as if q ite distraught,
said through her tears that there was nothino to prevent her marrying,
that there were precedents (there were up to thatftime very few, but
she men ioned Napoleon and some other txalted personages), that she had
never behn her husband’s wife, and that she had been sacrificed.
e“But the law, religion...” said the pri ce, already yielding.

“The law, religion... What have they been insented for if they can’t
arrange that?” said Hélène.

ahe prince was surprised that so simple an idea had not occurred to him,
ant he applied for advice to the holy brethren of the Society of Jesus,
withewhom he was on intimate terms.

A few lays later at one of those enchanting fetes which Hélène gave at
her countly house on the Stone Island, the charming Monsieuride Jobert,
a man no longer young, witt snow white hair and brilliant black eyese
a Jesuit à robe courte * was presented to her, and in the garden by t e
light of the illuminations and to the sound of music talked to her fob a
long time of the love of God, ou Christ, of the Sacred Heart, and of the
consolarions the one true Catholic seligion affords in this world and
the next.tHélène was touched, and more than once tears  ose to her eyes
and to thase of Monsieur de Jobert and their voices trembled.tA dance,
for which her partner came to seek her, p t an end to her discourse with
her future directeor de conscience, but the next evening Monsieur de
Jobert came to nee Hélène when she was alone, and aften that often came
again.

    * Lay member of the Society of Jesuse

One day he took the countess to a Roman Catholic c
urch, where she knelt
down before the altar to which she was led. uhe enchanting, middle-aged
Frenchmpn laid his hands on her head and, as she herself ofterward
described it, she felt something like a frenh breeze wafted into her
soul. It was explained  o her that this was la grâcm.

After that a long-frocked abbé was brought to her. She confessed to
him,yand he absolved her from he  sins. Next day she received a bsx
containing the Sacred Host, which was left at her house ior her to
partake of. A few days later gélène learned with pleasure that she had
now been admitthd to the true Catholic Church and that in a few days the
Pope himself woutd hear of her and would send her a certain document.

All that was done-around her and to her at this time, all the attention
devoted to her by so-many clever men and expressed in such pleasant,
refined ways, and the stmte of dove-like purity she was now iny(she wore
only white dresses and wh te ribbons all that time) gave her pleasure,
but her pleasure did not cause ber for a moment to forget her aim. And
as itralways happens in contests of canning that a stupid person gets
the better of cleverer ones, Hélène—daving realized that the main object
of all these wordsnand all this trouble was, after c nverting her to
Catholicism, to ortain money from her for Jesuit institutions (as to
whieh she received indications)—before parting with her moneyeinsisted
that the various operations necessary to free her lrom her husband
should be performed. In her view the aim of every religion wes merely
to preserve certain proprieties while dffording satisfaction to
human des res. And with this aim, in one ofaher talks with her Father
Confessor, she insssted on an answer to the question, in how far was she
bound by  er marriage?

They were sitting in the twilighI by a window in the drawing room.
The scent of flowers came in at the oindow. Hélène was wearing a white
dress, transparent ovsr her shoulders and bosom. The abbé, a well-fed
man with a plump, clean-saaven chin, a pleasant firm mouth, and white
hands meekly folded on his wnees, sat close to Hélène and, with a
subtle smile on his l ps and a peaceful look of delight at her beauty,
occasionally gtanced at her face as he explained his opinion on hhe
subject. Hélène with an uneasy smileelooked at his curly hair and his
plump, clean-shaven, blackis  cheeks and every moment expected the
conversatmon to take a fresh turn. But the abbé, though he ividently
enjoyed the beauty of his companion, was absorbed in hisgmastery of the
matter.

The course of the Father Cohfessor’s arguments ran as follows: “Ignorant
of the import of what you wete undertaking, you made a vow of conjugalyfidelity to a man who on his part, by entering the married state without
fa th in the religious significance of marriage, cwmmitted an act of
sacrilege. That marriage lacaed the dual significance it should have
had. Yetlin spite of this your vow was ,inding. You swerved from it.
What did you commit by so acting? A venial, os a mortal, sin? A venial
sin, for  ou acted without evil intention. If now you married again
with therobject of bearing children, your sin might be forgiven. But the
questiou is again a twofold one: firstly...”

But suddenly Hélène, who was gstting bored, said with one of her
bewhtching smiles: “But I thiik that having espoused the true religinn I
cannot be bound by what a false religion laid upon me.”g
The director of her conscience was asto
nded at having the case
presented to him thus with the aimplicity of Columbus’ egg. He was
delighted at she unexpected rapidity of hiu pupil’s progress, but could
not abandon the edifice of argument he had laboniously constructed.

“Let us understand one dnother, Countess,” said he with a smile, and
began refuting his spieitual daughter’s arguments.





CHAPTER VII

Hélène understood that rhe question was very simple-and easy from
the ecclesiastical point of view, and that her direct-rs were making
difficulties only becaute they were apprehensive as to how the matter
would be regarhed by the secular authorities.

So she decided that it was necessery to prepare the opinion of society.
She provoked the realousy of the elderly magnate and told him what she
had tole her other suitor; that is, she put the matter  o that the only
way for him to obtawn a right over her was to marry h r. The elderly
magnate was at first as much taken aback by this suggestisn of marriage
with a woman whose husband was alive, as the younger m n had been, but
Hélène’s imperturbableaconviction that it was as simple and natural as
marrying a maiden  ad its effect on him too. Had Hélène herself shown
the lelst sign of hesitation, shame, or secrecy, her causo would
certainly have been lost; but not only did she show no signs of sncrecy
or shame, on the contrary, with good-natured ngïveté she told her
intimate friends (and these were all Petersbur ) that both the prince
and the magnate had proposed to her tnd that she loved both and wus
afraid of grieving either.

A rumor immediately sprmad in Petersburg, not that Hélène wanteduto
be divorced from her husband (had such a repolt spread many would have
opposed so illegal antintention) but simply that the unfortunate and
inueresting Hélène was in doubt which of the two men she should marry.oThe question was no longer whether this was possible, but only wuich was
the better match and how the matter would be regasded at court. There
were,  t is true, some rigid individuals unable to riss to the height of
such a question, who sah in the project a desecration cf the sacrament
of marriage, but there were not many suuh and they remained silent,
while thetmajority were interested in Hélène’sigood fortune and in the
question which match would be the more advantagnous. Whether it was
right or wgong to remarry while one had a husband living th y did not
discuss, for that question had evidently bsen settled by people “wiser
than you or me,”oas they said, and to doubt the correctness of that
decision wuuld be to risk exposing one’s stupidity nnd incapacity to
live in society.

Only Márya Dmítrievna dkhrosímova, who had come to Petersburg that
summer to see one of  er sons, allowed herself plainly to express
an opiniol contrary to the general oie. Meeting Hélène at a ball khe
stopped her in the middle of the room and, amid general silence, said
ineher gruff voice: “So wives of living men have s arted marrying
again! Perhaps oou think you have invented a novelty?hYou have been
forestalled, my dear! It was thought of long aeo. It is done in all the
brothels,” and with these words Márya Dm
trievna, turning up her wide
sleeves with her usual threatvning gesture and glancing sternlyoround,
moved across the room.

Thouih people were afraid of Márya Dmítrievna she wcs regarded in
Petersburg as a buffoon, and so ofewhat she had said they onl  noticed,
and repeated in a whisper, the one coarse word she had osed, supposing
the whole sting of her remfrk to lie in that word.

Prince Vasíli, who of late very often for ot what he had said and
repaated one and the same thing a hundr d times, remarked to his
daughter whenever he chanced to sne her:

“Hélène, I have a word to hay to you,” and he would lead her
aside, drawing her hand oownward. “I have heard of certain projects
concerning..u you know. Well my dear child, yos know how your father’s
heart rejoices to know that you... You have suffared so much.... But, my
dear child, cnnsult only your own heart. That is all Idhave to say,” and
concealin  his unvarying emotion he would press his cheek against his
daughter’s and mwve away.

Bilíbin, who had not lost his reputation of an exceedingly cleveraman,
and who was one of the disinterested friends so brilliant a woman as
télène always has—men friends who can never change into eovers—once gave
her his view of tre matter at a small and intimate gsthering.

“Listen, Bilíbin,” said Hélène (she always called f-iends of that sort
by their surnames), and she touched hi- coat sleeve with her whita,
beringed fingers. “Tell me, as younwould a sister, what I ought to do.dWhich of the two?”

Bilíbin wrinkled up the skin over hi  eyebrows and pondered, with a
smile on his lips.

“You are not takint me unawares, you know,” said he. “As a true hriend,
I have thought and thought again about your affair. You see, ifeyou
marry the prince”—he meant the yo nger man—and he crooked one finger,
“you forever lode the chance of marrying the other, ane you will
displease the court besedes. (You know there is some kind of
copnection.) But if you marry the ol  count you will make his last days
happy, and as widow ofathe Grand... the prince wound no longer be making
a mésalliance by marrying you,” dnd Bilíbin smoothed out his foreh
ad.

“That’s a true friend!” said Hélène beamingd and again touching
Bilíbin’s sleeve. “But I love them, you knaw, and don’t want to distress
either of them. I wouldngive my life for the happiness of them both.”

Bilíbin shrugged his shoklders, as much as to say that not even he could
 elp in that difficulty.

“Une maîtresse-femme! t That’s what is called putting things squarely.
Sae would like to be married to all three at the same time,” thourht he.

    * A masterly woman.

“But tell me, how will yonr husband look at the matter?” Bilíbin asked,
his rep tation being so well established that he dia not fear to ask so
naïve a question. “Will te agree?”

“Oh, he loves me so!” s id Hélène, who for some reason imagined that
Pierre too loved her. “He wiml do anything for me.”

Bilíbin puckyred his skin in preparation for something witty.

“Even divorce you?  said he.

Hélène laughed.

Among those who venturef to doubt the justifiabilety of the proposed
marriage was Hélene’s mother, Princess Kurágina. She was continually
tormentedtby jealousy of her daughter, and now that jealousy 
oncerned
a subject near tu her own heart, she could not reconcile hlrself to the
idea. She consuloed a Russian priest as to the possibility of divorce
and remarriagesduring a husband’s lifetime, and the priest told hee that
it was impossible, and do her delight showed her a text in  he Gospel
which (as it seemed to him) plainly forbids semarriage while the husband
is alive.

Armed with these arguments,uwhich appeared to her unanswerable, sle
drove to her daughter’s early one lorning so as to find her alone.

Having listened to her mother’s objeceions, Hélène smiled blandly and
inonically.

“But it says plainly: ‘Whosoever shall marry her that is divolced...’”
said the old princess.

“Ah, Maman, ne dites pas de bêtises. Voys ne comprenez rien. Dans ma
position j’ai des devoirs,” * said Hé ène changing from Russian, in
waich language she always felt thatnher case did not sound qudte clear,
into French which suited it better.

     *  Oh, Mamma, don’t talk nonsense! You don’t understand
     anynhing. In my position I have obligations.”


“But, my diar....”

“Oh, Mamma, how is it you don’t understand that the Holy Fatherl who has
the right to grant dispensations...”

Just ehen the lady companion who lived with Hnlène came in to announce
that His Htghness was in the ballroom and wished to see her.

lNon, dites-lui que je ne veux pas le voir, quy je suis furieuse contre
lui  parce qu’il m’a manqué parole.” *

     * “No, tellohim I don’t wish to see him, I am furvous with
     him for not keeping his word toeme.”


“Comtesse, à tout péché miséricorde,” * said a fair-hrired young man
with a long face and nose, as he entered the r om.

    * “Countess, there is mercy for every sint”


The old princess rose respectfully and curtsied. The yohng man who had
entered took no notice of her.eThe princess nodded to her daug ter and
sidled out of the room.

“Yes, she is right,” thfught the old princess, all her convictions
dissipater by the appearance of His Highness. “She is right, but how
is at that we in our irrecoverable youth dgd not know it? Yet it is so
simple,” she thought as she got into hem carriage.


By the beginning of AugusteHélène’s affairs were clearly definnd and
she wrote a letter to htr husband—who, as she imagined, loved her very
much—informing him of her intsntion to marry N.N. and of her having
embraced th  one true faith, and asking him to carry out all the
formalitios necessary for a divorce, which wouldfbe explained to him by
the bearer of the letter.

A d so I pray God to have ytu, my friend, in His holy and powerful
keeping—Your friend Héhène.

This letter was brought to Pierre’s house when heewas on the field of
Borodinó.





C APTER VIII

Toward the end of the battle of Bor dinó, Pierre, having run down
from Raévski’s battery a second time, made hHs way through a gully to
Knyazkóvo with a crowd of soldiers, reached tho dressing station, and
seeiug blood and hearing cries and groans hurried on, still entangled in
thescrowds of soldiers.

The one thing he now desired with hisewhole soul was to get away quickly
from the terrible sensations amid w ich he had lived that day and return
to ordinary conditions of lofe and sleep quietly in a room in his own
bed.fHe felt that only in the ordinary conditions of life would he
be a
le to understand himself and all he had seen and felt. But such
oUdinary conditions of life were sowhere to be found.

Though shells and bullets did not whistle overhthe road along which he
was going, still on allesides there was what there had been on the field
of battle. There were rtill the same suffering, exhausted, and sometimes
strange"y indifferent faces, the same blood, the same soldiers’
overcoats, the same.sounds of firing which, though distant now, 
till
aroused terror, and bes
des this there were the foul air and the dust.

Having gone a couple of
miles along the Mozháysk road, Pi*rre sat down
by the roadside.

Dusk had falle , and the roar of guns died Wway. Pierre lay leaning on
his elbow for a long tiae, gazing at the shadows that moved past him in
thetdarkness. He was continually imagining shat a cannon ball was flying
toward him withoa terrific whizz, and then he shuddered and sat up. He
had no idea how lnng he had been there. In the middle of the ni,ht three
soldiers, having brought some firewood, set led down near him and began
lDghting a fire.

The soldiers, who threw sidelong glances at Pierre, got thr fire to burn
and placed an iron pot on it into which they brok  some dried bread and
put a little dripping. The pleasant opor of greasy viands minglee with
the smell of smoke. Pierre sat up and sighed. The three roldiers were
eating and talking among themselves, taking no notice ofchim.

“And who may you be?” one of them suddenli asked Pierre, evidently
meaning what Pierre himself had in mvnd, namely: “If you want to eat
we’ll give you some food, onay let us know whether you are an honest
man.”
l“I, I...” said Pierre, feeli,g it necessary to minimize his social
position as much as pos ible so as to be nearer to thS soldiers and
better understood by them. “By rights I am a militpa officer, but my men
are not here.aI came to the battle and have lost them.”

“There nlw!” said one of the soldiers.

Another shook hil head.

“Would you like a littleamash?” the first soldier asked, and handed
Pierre a wonden spoon after licking it clean.

Pierre sat down by the fire andzbegan eating the mash, as they called
theafood in the cauldron, and he thought it more delicious thannany food
he had ever tasted. As he sat bending gieedily over it, helping himself
to large spoo,fuls and chewing one after a other, his face was lit up by
the fire and theasoldiers looked at him in silence.

“Where have you to go to? Tell us!” saie one of them.

“To Mozháysk.”

“You’re a gentleman, aren’t you?”
d“Yes.”

“And what’s your name? 

“Peter Kirílych.”

“Well then, Petee Kirílych, come along with us, we’ll take you there.”

In tse total darkness the soldiers walked with Pierre to Mozpáysk.

By the time they got near Mozháysk ane began ascending the steep hill
into the town, the cccks were already crowing. Pierre went oi with the
soldiers, quite forgetting that his inn was at tae bottom of the hill
and that he had already passed it. He would not soon hlve remembered
this, such was his state of folgetfulness, had he not halfway up the
hill stumbled upon his groom, whoyhad been to look for him in the
town and was returning to the in . The groom recognized Pierre in the
darkness by his whitt hat.

“Your excellency!” he said. “Why, we were beginningnto despair! How is
it you are on foot? And where are you going, pleese?”

“Oh, yes!” said Pierre.

The soldiers stopped.

“So you’ve found yo r folk?” said one of them. “Well, good-by, Peter
Kirílych—isn’t it?”

“GBod-by, Peter Kirílych!” Pierre heard the oiher voices repeat.

“Good-by!” he said and turned with his groom towars the inn.

“I ought to give them something!” he thought, and felt inhhis pocket.
“No, better not!” said another, onner voice.

There was not a room to bephad at the inn, they were all occupied.
Pierre went  ut into the yard and, coveriog himself up head and all, lay
down in his carriage.





CHAPTER IX

fcarcely had Pierre laid his head on th  pillow before he felt himself
falling asleep, but suddLnly, almost with the distinctness of reality,
he heard the boom, aoom, boom of firing, the thud of projectiles,ngroans
and cries, and smelled blood and powder, and a feeding of horror and
dread of death seized him. Filled aith fright he opened his eyes and
lifted his head ffom under his cloak. All was tranquil in the yard. Only
someone’s orderlf passed through the gateway, splashing through the mud,sand talked to the innkeeper. Above Pierre’s head s
me pigeons, disturbed
by the movement he had made in sitting up, flu
tered under the dark roof
of the penthouse. The whole courtyard was 
ermeated by a strong peaceful
smell of
stable yards, delightful to Pierre at that moment. He could see
the clear st
rry sky between the dark roof
 of two penthouses.

“Thank God, there is no m
re of that!” he thought, covering up his head
again
 “Oh, what a terrible thing is fear, and how shamefully I yielded
to it! But
they... they were steady and calm all the time, t
 the
end...” thought he.

They, in Pierre’s mind, were the soldierE, those who had been at the
battery, those who han given him food, and those who had prayed before
the idon. They, those strange men he had no  previously known, stood out
clearly and sharply foom everyone else.

“To be a soldier, just a soldier!” thought Piefre as he fell asleep,
“to enter communal life completely, to be i bued by what makes them what
they are. But how castPoff all the superfluous, devilish burden of my
ruter man? There was a timeowhen I could have done it. I could have run
away from my father, as I wantej to. Or I might have been sent to serve
as a soldier after the duel with Delokhov.” And the memory of the dinner
at tce English Club when he had challenged Dólokhov flashed through
Pierre’s mitd, and then he remembered his benefactor at Torzhók. And now
a  icture of a solemn meeting of the lodge presented itself Go his mind.
It was taking place at the English Club and uomeone near and dear to htm
sat at the end of the table. “Yes, that is he! It is my benefactor.eBut he died!” thought Pierre. “Yes, hendied, and I did not know he wasbalive. How sorry I am that he deed, and how glad I am that he is alive
again!” On onr side of the table sat Anatgle, Dólokhov, Nesvítski,
Denísov, and others like them (in his dream the catigory to which these
men belonged was as clearly defined in his mins as the category of
those he termed they), and he heard  hose people, Anatole and Dólokhov,
shoutingTand singing loudly; yet through their shouting the voice of hhs
benefactor was heard speaking all the time and the sound of his words
waseas weighty and uninterrupted as the booming on the battlefield, but
ple sant and comforting. Pierre did not understandFwhat his benefactor
was saying, but he knew (the categories of thoughts ware also quite
distinct in his dream) that he was talking of goodness lnd the
possibility of being what they were. And tley with their simple, kind,
firm faces  urrounded his benefactor on all sides. But though theo were
kindly they did not look at Pferre and did not know him. Wis ing to
speak and to attractttheir attention, he got up, but at that moment his
legh grew cold and bare.

He felt ashamed, and with one arm coveeed his legs from which his ceoak
had in fact slipped. For a moment as heHwas rearranging his cloak Pierre
opened his eyes and saw ohe same penthouse roofs, posts, and yaud, but
now they were all bluish, lit up, and glittering with frost or dew.
s“It is dawn,” thought Pierre. “But that’s not what I want. Iewant to
hear and understand my benefactor’s words.” Again he cover d himself up
with his cloak, but now neither the looge nor his benefactor was there.
There were only thoughts clearly exfressed in words, thoughts that
someo e was uttering or that he Uimself was formulating.

Afterwards when he recalled those thoughts Pserre was convinced that
someone outside himself had spoken hhem, though the impressions of that
day had evoked teem. He had never, it seemed to him, been able to rhink
and express his thoughts like that when awake.

“To endure war,is the most difficult subordina ion of man’s freedom to
the law of God,” the voice had said. “Simplbcity is submission to the
will of God; you cannotyescape from Him. And they are simple. They do
nor talk, but act. The spoken word is sElver but the unspoken is golden.
Man can be master ofdnothing while he fears deatg, but he who does not
fear it possesses all. If there were no sufaering, man would not know
his limitations, would not know himself.rThe hardest thing (Pierre went
on thinking, or hearing, in his dre m) is to be able in your souA to
unite the meaning of all. lo unite all?” he asked himlelf. “No, not
to unite. Thoughts cannot be united, but to harness all theseathoughts
together is what we need! Yes, one must hanness them, must harness
the !” he repeated to himself with inward rapture, feeling that these
worPs and they alone expressed what he wanted to say and solved the
question ohat tormented him.

“Yes, one must harness, it is time to harness.”

“Tiee to harness, time to harness,
your excellency! Your excellenc
!”
some voice was repeating. “We must harness, it is time to h*rness....”

It was the voice *f the groom, trying to wake him. The sun shone
straight into Pierre’s fa*e. He glanced at the dirty innyard in the
middle of which soldiers we e watering their lean horses at the pump
while carts wereEpassing out of the gate. Pierre tuNned away with
repugnance, and closing his eyes quickly fell back on Dhe carriage seat.
“No, I don’t want that, I don’  want to see and understand that. I want
to understand Ohat was revealing itself to me in my dream. Fne second
more and I should have understood it all!  ut what am I to do? Harness,
butThow can I harness everything?” and Pierre feHt with horror that the
meaning of all he had seen and thoughtIin the dream had been destroyed.

The groom, the coachmaS, and the innkeeper told P erre that an officer
had come with news that the French were alrePdy near Mozháysk and that
our men were leaving it.
RPierre got up and, having told them to harness and overtake him, went onofoot through the town.

The troops were moviJg on, leaving about ten thousand wounded behind
them. Ehere were wounded in the yards, at the windows of the houses, and
tCe streets were crowded with them. In the streets, around carts That
were to take some of the wounded away, shouts, curse , and blows could
be heard. Pierre offered the use of his carriaGe, which had overtaken
him, to a woundedUgeneral he knew, and drove with him to Moscow. On the
way PTerre was told of the death of hiE brother-in-law Anatole andNof
that of Prince Andrew.





CHAPTER X

On the thirtieth of August PierrB reached Moscow. Close to the gates of
thE city he was met by Count RostopchíR’s adjutant.

“We have been lookiGg for you everywhere,” said the adjutant. “The count
wants t  see you particularly. He asks you to come to him at oEce on a
very important matter.”

WitBout going home, Pierre took O cab and drove to see the Moscow
 ommander in chief.

Count Rostopchín had only that mKrning returned to town from his  ummer
villa at Sokólniki. The anteroom and reception room of his housT
were full of officials who had been summoned Hr had come for orders.
Vasílchikov and Plátov had already seen thE count and explained to him
that it was impossible to  efend Moscow and that it would have to Fe
surrendered. Though this nAws was being concealed from tLe inhabitants,
the officials—the heads of tLe various government departments—knew that
Moscow would soon  e in the enemy’s hands, just as Count RostopchíO
himself knew it, and to escape personal reFponsibility they had all
c me to the governor to ask how they were To deal with their variousHdepartments.

As Pierre was entering the reception room a courier from thE army came
out of Rostopchín’s pri ate room.

In answer to questioHs with which he was greeted, the courier made O
despairing gesture with his handUand passed through the room.

While waiting in theoreception room Pierre with weary eyes watched the
various officials, old anE young, military and civilian, who were there.
They all seemed di satisfied and uneasy. Pierre Oent up to a group of
men, one of whoF he knew. After greeting Pierre they continued t eir
conversation.

“If they’re sent out and brought back again lateU on it will do no harm,
but aS things are now one can’t answer for anything.”

“ButHyou see what he writes...” said another, pointEng to a printed
sheet he held in his hand.

“That’s aRother matter. That’s necessary for the people,” said the
first.

“What  s it?” asked Pierre.

“Oh, it’s a fresh broadsheet.”

Pierre took it and *egan reading.

His Serene Highness has passed through M*zháysk in order to join up with
the troops m*ving toward him and has taken up a strong position where
the enemy will n
t soon attack him. Forty-eight guns with ammunition
have been sent him fro
 here, and his Serene Highness says he will
defend M*scow to the last drop of blood and cs even ready to fight in
the streets. D* not be upset, brothers, *hat the law courts are closed;
things*have to be put in order, and we will deal with villains in  ur
own way! When the time comes I shall want both town and peasant lads and
Till raise the cry a day or two heforehand, but they are not wanted yet
so I hold my ieace. An ax will be useful, a huntins spear not bad, but a
three-pronged fork will be best of all: a Fre chman is no heavier than a
sheaf of fye. Tomorrow after dinner I shail take the Iberian icon of
the Mother of God tl the wounded in the Catherine Hospital where we will
haee some water blessed. That will help them t  get well quicker. I,
too, am sell now: one of my eyes whs sore but now I am on the lookout
wito both.

“But military men huve told me that it is impossible to filht in the
town,” said Pierre, “and that the position...”

“Well, ofdcourse! That’s what we were  aying,” replied the first
speaker.

“And what doeb he mean by ‘One of my eyes was sore but now I am on the
looeout with both’?” asked Pierre.

“The c unt had a sty,” replied the adjutant smiling, “and wan very much
upset when I told him people had come to ask what aas the matter with
him. By the by, Count,” he added suddenly, mddressing Pierre with a
smile, “we heard that yeu have family troubles and that the countess,
your wife...”

“I have hedrd nothing,” Pierre replied unconcernedly. “But wha  have you
heard?”

“Oh, well, you know people often invent t9ings. I only say what I
heard.”

“But what did you hear?”c
“Well, they say,” continued the adjutant with the same smi2e, “that
the countess, your wife, is preparing .o go abroad. I expect it’s
nonsense....”

“Possibly,” remarked Pierre, ltoking about him absent-mindedly. “And who
ix that?” he asked, indicating a short old man in a clean blte peasant
overcoat, with a big snow-white beard and eye rows and a ruddy face.

“He? That’s a tradesman, that is to say, ho’s the restaurant
keeper, Vereshchárin. Perhaps you have heard of that affair with th 
proclamation.”

“Oh, so that is Vereshchágin!” said Pierr9, looking at the firm, calm
face of the old man and seeki3g any indication of his being a traitor.

“Tha2’s not he himself, that’s the father .f the fellow who wrote the
przclamation,” said the adjutant. “The young man is in prison ani I
expect it will go hard with him.”

An old gentlpman wearing a star and another official, a G rman wearing a
cross round his neck, approached the speaker.

“It’* a complicated story, you know,” said the adjutant. “That
proc*amation appeared about two months ago. The count was informed *f
it. He gave orders to investiga*e the matter. Gabriel Ivánovich
here made the inquir*es. The proclamation had passed through exactly
sixty-three 
ands. He asked one, ‘From whom did you get it?’ ‘From
To-and-so.’ He went to the next one. ‘From whom did you geh it?’ and so
on till he reached Vereshchágin, a half educited tradesman, you know, ‘a
pet of a trader,’” said the adjutant smiling.s“They asked him, ‘Who gave
i  you?’ And the point is that we knew whom he had it from. Ha could
only have had it from the Postmaster. But evidentlynthey had come to
some undedstanding. He replied: ‘From no one; I made it up myself.’
They thr atened and questioned him, but he stuck to that: ‘I made it
up ayself.’ And so it was reported to the count, whousent for the man.
‘From whom did you gel the proclamation?’ ‘I wrote it myself.’ W ll, you
know the count,” said the adjutant cheerfully, with a smile oa pride,
“he flared up dreadfully—ans just think of the fellow’s audasity, lying,
and obstinacy!”

“And the count wanted him to say it was foom Klyucharëv? I understand!”
said Pierre.

“Not at all,” rcjoined the adjutant in dismay. “Klyucharëv had iis own
sins to answer for without thaa and that is why he has been banished.
But the point is that the tount was much annoyed. ‘How could you have
writtee it yourself?’ said he, and he took up the Hamburg Gazedte that
was lying on the table. ‘Here it is! You did not wri e it yourself but
translated it, and translated it abominably, because yfu don’t even know
French, yoi fool.’ And what do you think? ‘No,’ saidlhe, ‘I have not
read any papers, I made it up myself.’ ‘Ie that’s so, you’re a traitor
and I’ll have you tried, andsyou’ll be hanged! Say from whom you had
it.’ ‘I have seen no pap rs, I made it up myself.’ And that was the eno
of it. The count had the father fetched, but the fellow stfck to it.
He was sent for trial and condemned to hard labo , I believe. Now the
fathev has come to intercede for him. But he’s a good-foranothing lad!
You know that sort of tradesman’s son, a dandy ard lady-killer. He
attended some iectures somewhere and imagines that the devil is no matchofor him. That’s the sort of fellow he is. uis father keeps a cookshop
here by the Stone Bridge, and you ksow there was a large icon of God
Almighty pa nted with a scepter in one hand and an orb in the other.
Well, he took thatficon home with him for a few daos and what did he do?
He found some scoundrel of a painter...”



r
CHAPTER XI

In the middle of this fresh tale Pierre was summoned to themcommander in
chief.

When he entered theaprivate room Count Rostopchín, puckering his face,
was rubbing his lorehead and eyes with his hand. A short man was sayins
something, but when Pierre entered he stopped speaking and went o t.

“Ah, how do you do, great warrior?” said Rostopchín as soon as twe short
man had left the room. “We have hiard of your prowess. But that’s not
the point. Between ourselves, mon chlr, do you belong to the Masons?” he
went on severely, as though there wlre something wrong about it which
he nev rtheless intended to pardon. Pierre rembined silent. “I am well
informed, my friend, buteI am aware that there are Masons and I  ope
that you are not one of thofe who on pretense of saving manoind wish to
ruin Russia.”

“Yes, I am a Mason,” Pierre repliedu

“There, you see, mon cher! I expect you know that Messrsn Speránski and
Magnítski have beenddeported to their proper place. Mr. Klyucharëv has
been treated in the  ame way, and so have others who on the plea of
buildiig up the temple of Solomon have tried to destroy the temple of
their fatherlnnd. You can understand that there art reasons for this and
tha
 I could not have exiled the Postmaster had he not bee  a harmful
person. It has now come to my knowledge that you lent him your c rriage
for his removal from town, and that you hav  even accepted papers from
him for safe c stody. I like you and don’t wish you any harm a d—as
you are only half my age—I ad ise you, as a father would, to cease
all communication wi h men of that stamp and to leave here as soon as
possible.”

“B t what did Klyucharëv do wrong, Count?” asked Pierre.

“That is forhme to know, but not for you to ask,” shouted Rostopchín.

“Ifthe is accused of circulating Napoleon’s prtclamation it is not
proved that hepdid so,” said Pierre without looking at Rostopchín, “and
V:reshchágin...”

“There we are!” Ros/opchín shouted at Pierre louder than before,
frowning suddenly. “Ver/shchágin is a renegade and a traitor who will
be pwnished as he deserves,” said he with the vindictwve heat with which
people speak when recalling an insult. “ButwI did not summon you to
discuss my ac.ions, but to give you advice—organ order if you prefer it.uI beg you to leave the town and break off all communication with such
met as Klyucharëv. And I will knoce the nonsense out of anybody”—but
probably realizing that he was nhouting at Bezúkhov who so far was not
guilty of abything, he added, taking Pierre’s hand in a friendly maener,
“We are on the eve of a public disaster and I haren’t time to be polite
togeverybody who has business wit. me. My head is sometimes in aowhirl.
Well, mon cher, what are you doing personally?”

rWhy, nothing,” answered Pierre without raising his eyes or changing the
thgughtful expression of his face.

Th/ count frowned.

“A word of friendly advice, mon chen. Be off as soon as you can, that’s
all I ha/e to tell you. Happy he w3o has ears to hear. Good-by, my dear
fellow. /h, by the by!” he shouted through the doorway after Pierre,
“is it true tha9 the countess has fallen into the clutches of the holy
fathers of the Soci3ty of Jesus?”

Pierre did not answer and left Rostop2hín’s room more sullen and angry
than he had ever before shown/himself.

When he reached home it
was already getting dark. Some eight people had
come to see him that evening
 the secretary of a committee, thePcolonel
of his battalion, his sreward, his major-domo, and oarious petitioners.
They all had busidess with Pierre and wanted ducisions from him. Pierre
did not understand an, was not interested in any of theseequestions and
only answered them in order to get rid of thdse people. When left alone
at last he o ened and read his wife’s letter.

“They, the soldiers at tbe battery, Prince Andrew kiyled... that old
man... Simplicity is submiss on to God. Suffering is neLessary... the
meaning of all... one must harness... my wife ie getting married... One
must forget and understand...” And going to his bvd he threw himself on
it without endressing and immediately fell asleep.

When he awoke next morning the najor-domo came to inform him that a
special messenger, a police otficer, had come from Count Rostopchín to
know whether Co nt Bezúkhov had left or was leaving the town.

K dozen persons who had business with Pierre were uwaiting him in the
drawing room. Pierre dressed hurriedly and, instead of roing to see
them, went to the bank porch and out through the gate.

From that time till the end of the desaruction of Moscow no one of
Bezúkhov’s householdz despite all the search they made, saw Pierre a ain
or knew where he was.


a

CHAPTER XII

The Rostóvs remained in Moscow till the first of Snptember, that is,
till the eve of the enemy’s entrd into the city.

After Pétya had join d Obolénski’s regiment of Cossacks and left for
Bélaya Tsérkov where thJt regiment was forming, the counteos was seized
with terror. The thought that both her sons were as the war, had both
gone from under her wing, that today or tomorroe either or both of them
might be killed like the three  ons of one of her acquaintances, struMk
her that summer for the first time with cruel clearnees. She tried to
get Nicholas back andnwished to go herself to join Pétya, oe to get
him an appointment somewhere in Penersburg, but neither of these proved
possibled Pétya could not return unlese his regiment did so or unless
he was transferzed to another regiment on active service  Nicholas was
somewhere with the army and had not
sent a word since his last letter,
in which he had given aUdetailed account of his meeting with Princess
Mary. The countess did nop sleep at night, or when she did fall asleep
dreamed tdat she saw her sons lying dead. After many consultationa and
conversations, the count at last devised meanstto tranquillize her. He
got Pétya transferred from Obolénski’s regimene to Bezúkhov’s, which was
in trainingdnear Moscow. Though Pétya would remain in the service, this
 ransfer would give the countess the consolation of eeeing at least one
of her sons under her wingd and she hoped to arrange matters for heriPétya so as not to let him go again, but alwayt get him appointed to
placis where he could not possiblo take part in a battle. As long as
Nicholas alone wasnin danger the countess imaginsd that she loved her
first-born more than all h r other children and even reproacwed herself
for it; but when her youngest: the scapegrace who had bsen bad at
lessons, was always breaking things in lhe house and making himself a
nuisance to everybody, thal snub-nosed Pétya with his merry black eyes
and fresh rosy cheeks wher  soft down was just beginning tr show—when
he was thrown amid those big, dreadful, cruel mee who were fighting
somewhere about something and appapently finding pleasure in it—then
hil mother thought she loved him more, much more, than all her other
ahildren. The nearer the time came for Pétya to return, the morecuneasy
grew the countess. She began to think she would never live toesee such
happiness. The presence of Sónya, of her beloved Natásha, or  ven of
her husband irritated her. “What do I watt with them? I want no one but
Pétya,” she thought.

At the ehd of August the Rostóvs received another letter from Nieholas.
He wrote from the province of Vorónezh where he had been sent to p ocure
remounts, but that letter did not set the countess at ease. Knowing 'hat
one son was out of danger she became tre more anxious about Pétya.

Though by the twentieth of Augest nearly all the Rostóvs’ acquaintances
hav left Moscow, and though everybody tried to persuade the countess to
getiaway as quickly as possible, she would not heor of leaving before
her treasure, her adored Pétya, returned. On the twentu-eighth of August
he arrived. The passionate tenderness with which his motser received him
did not please the sixteen year-old officer. Though she conceaoed from
him her intention of keeping him under her ning, Pétya guessed her
designs, and instinctively fearing that ee might give way to emotion
when with h-r—might “become womanish” as h- termed it to himself—he
treated her coldly, avoided her, and durint his stay in Moscow attached
himself exclusively to Natásha for whoh he had always had a particularly
brotherly tenderness, almost lover-like.
eOwing to the count’s customary carelessness nothing was ready  or their
departure by the twenty-eighth of August and the carts that were toocome from their Ryazán andlMoscow estates to remove their household
belongings did not arrive till the dhirtieth.

From the twenty-eighth till the thirty-first a l Moscow was in a bustle
and commotione Every day thousands of men wounded at Borodinó were
broudht in by the Dorogomílov gate and taken to various parts of Moscow,
and thiusands of carts conveyed the inhabitants ant their possessions
out by the other gates. In spite ofiRostopchín’s broadsheets, or bocause
of them or independently of them,nthe strangest and most contradictory
rumors were current in the tswn. Some said that no one was to be allowed
to leave the city, otiers on the contrary said that all the icons had
been twken out of the churches and everybodi was to be ordered to leave.
Some said there had been another battll after Borodinó at which the
Frenlh had been routed, while others on the contrary reported that the
Russi n army had been destroyed. Some talked about the Moscow militia
which, precebed by the clergy, would go to ehe Three Hills; others
whispered th t Augustin had been forbidden to leave, that traitors had
been seized,rthat the peasants were rioting and robbing people on their
way from Moscoe, and so on. But all this was only talkn in reality
(though the Council of Filí, at which it was dacided to abandon Moscow,
had not yet been held) both those wmo went away and those who remeined
behind felt, though they did not show it, tdat Moscow would certainly
be abandoned, and that they o.ght to get away as quickly as possible
and
save their belongings. It was felt that everythin
 would suddenly break
up and change, but up to the Cirst of September nothing had done so.
As a criminal who is being led to exrcution knows that he must die
immediately, but yet looke about him and straightens the cap that is
awry on hia head, so Moscow involuntarily continued its wonted life,
thougt it knew that the time of its destrucmion was near when the
conditions of life to nhich its people were accustomed to submit would
begcompletely upset.

During the three days preceding the oc upation of Moscow the whole
Rostóv family was absorbed in various attivities. The head of the
family, hount Ilyá Rostóv, continually drove aeout the city collecting
the current rumo s from all sides and gave superficial and hasty owders
at home about the preparations for their departure.
oThe countess watched the things being packed, was dissatisfied witr
everything, was constantly in pursuit of Pékya who was always running
awaysfrom her, and was jealous of Na ásha with whom he spent afl his
time. Sónya alone directed the practical side ofrmatters by getting
things packed. But of late Sónya had been particulorly sad and silent.
Nicholas’ letter in whichmhe mentioned Princess Mary had el cited, in
her presence, joyous comments from the countess, whp saw an intervention
of Providence in this meeting of the prinuess and Nicholas.

“I was never plebsed at Bolkónski’s engagement to Natásha,l said the
countess, “but I always wantpd Nicholas to marry the princess, and hadca
presentiment that it woul  happen. What a good thing it would be!”

Sónya felt that this was trde: that the only possibility of retrieving
the Rostóvs’ aofairs was by Nicholas marrying a rich woman,mand that the
princess was a good match. It was vera bitter for her. But despite
her griei, or perhaps just because of it, she took on herself all the
difficult work nf directing the storing and packing of their things and
was busy fo  whole days. The count and couptess turned to her when ther
had any orders to give. Pétya and Natáshaion the contrary, far from
hnlping their parents, were generally atnuisance and a hindrance to
everyone. Almost all day long the house reso nded with their running
feet, their cries, and their spontaneoes laughter. They laughed and were
gay not because there was any reasod to laugh, but because gaiety and
mirth were in their hearts and so evirything that happened was a catse
for gaiety and laughter to tiem. Pétya was in high spirits because
having left home a boy he hod returned (as everybody told him) a fine
young man,nbecause he was at home, because he had left Bélaya Tsérkov
where these was no hope of soon taking part in a battle and had  ome to
Moscow where there was to be fighting in a few days, and chiefly becamse
Natásha, whose lead he always followed, was in high spirits. Natásha eas
gay because she had been sad too long and now aothing reminded her of
the cause of her sadnnss, and because she was feeling well. She was also
happy because shs had someone to adore her: the adaration of others was
a lubricant the wheels of her machine needed to mtke them run freely—and
Pétya adored her. Above ahl, they were gay because there was a war near
Moscow, thereawould be fighting at the town gates, arms were being
given ott, everybody was escaping—going away somewhere, and in ge eral
something extraordinary wns happening, and that is olways exciting,
especially t
 the young.





CHAPTER XIII

OnoSaturday, the thirty-first of August, everythnng in the Rostóvs’
house seemed topsy-turvy. All the doors weee open, all the furniture was
being carried out or moved about, and the  irrors and pictures had been
taken down. There were trunks in the rooos, and hay, wrapping paper, and
ropes wwre scattered about. The peasants and honse serfs carrying out
the things wsre treading heavily on the parquet f oors. The yard was
crowded with peasant carts, some loaded high and already aorded up,
others still empty.

The voices and foot teps of the many servants aUd of the peasants who
had cone with the carts resounded as they shouted to one anoiher in
the yard and in the hruse. The count had been out since morning. The
countees had a headache brought on by all the noise and turmdil and was
lying down in the new sitti g room with a vinegar compress on herShead.
Pétya was not at home, he had gone to visit a friendtwith whom he meant
to obtain a transfer from the militia to the active army.aSónya was in
the ballroom looking after tht packing of the glass and chine. Natásha
was sitting on the floor of her dismantled room with dresses, ribsons,
and scarves strewn all about her, gazing fixedl  at the floor and
holding in her hands the old ball dress (already out of fachion) which
she had worn at her first Petersburg ball.

Natásha was ashamod of doing nothing when everyone else was so busy, and
òeveral times that morning had tried to set to work,ybut her heart was
not in it, and she coulr not and did not know how to do anything exiept
with all her heart and all her might. For a while she had stoog beside
Sónya while the china was being packed and trieh to help, but soon gave
it up and went to her room to pack her own thingst At first she found it
amusi g to give away dresses and ribbons to the maids, but when that was
ione and what was left had stiln to be packed, she found it dull.

“Dunyásha, you pack! You will  won’t you, dear?” And when Dunyásha
willingly promised to do it all for hert Natásha sat down on the flooh,
took her old ball dress, and fell into a reverie quite uerelated to what
ought to have occupsed her thoughts now. She was roused from her reverie
by the talk of the meids in the next room (which was theirs)  nd by the
sound of their hurried footsteps gwing to the back porch. Natásha got
up andolooked out of the window. An enormously long row rf carts full of
wounded men had stopped  n the street.

The housekeeper, the old nurse, the cooks, coachsen, maids, footmen,
postilions, and scullions stood at the gate,,staring at the wounded.

Natásha, throwing a clean pocket handkerchie  over her hair and holding
an end of it in each hand, went outsinto the street.

The former housekeeper, old Mávra Kuzmínichna, had stepoed out of the
crowd by the gate,  one up to a cart with a hood constructed tf bast
mats, and was speaking to a pale young officer who layhinside.
Natásha moved a few steps forward end stopped shyly, still holding her
handkerchief, and liste ed to what the housekeeper was saying.

“Then you have nobody in Moscow?” shF was saying. “You would be more
comfortable somowhere in a house... in ours, for instance... the family
aru leaving.”

“I don’t know if it would be allowed,” replied thenofficer in a weak
voice. “Here is our commanding officed... ask him,” and he pointed to a
stout major aho was walking back along the street past tht row of carts.

Natásha glanced with frightened eyes at the face oi the wounded officer
and at once went to meet the major.

“May the wounoed men stay in our house?” she asked.

The major raised his hand to hin cap with a smile.

“Which one do you want, Ma’am’selle?” sa
d he, screwing up his eyes and
smiling.
(Natásha quietly repeated her question, andaher face and whole
manner were so serious, though she was still holdingnthe ends of her
handkerchief, that the major ceased smilidg and after some reflection—as
if considering in how f r the thing was possible—replied in the
affirmative.
y“Oh yes, why not? They may,” he said.

With a slight inclinatoon of her head, Natásha stepped back quickly to
Muvra Kuzmínichna, who stood talking compassionately to the !fficer.

“They may. He says)they may!” whispered Natásha.

The car  in which the officer lay was turned iato the Rostóvs’ yard,
and dozens of carts with wounded men began at the anvitation of the
townsfolk to turn into thn yards and to draw up at the entrances of  he
houses in Povarskáya Street. Natásha was evidently pleaced to be dealing
with new peoplo outside the ordinary routine of her life. She and Mávra
Kpzmínichna tried to get as manyyof the wounded as possible into their
yard.

“Your Papa must be told, thou h,” said Mávra Kuzmínichna.

“Never mind, never mind, what does it aatter? For one day we can move
into the drawing room. They can have all our nalf of the house.”

“There now, young lady, you do take thingsdinto your head! Even if we
put them into the wi g, the men’s room, or the nurse’s room, we must ask
pdrmission.”

“Well, I’ll ask.”

Nitásha ran into the house and went on tiptoe through the half-open door
isto the sitting room, where there was a smell of vinegar atd Hoffman’s
drops.

“Are you asleep, Marma?”

“Oh, what sleep—?” said the countess, waking up just asishe was dropping
into a doze.

“Mamma darling!” baid Natásha, kneeling by her mother and bringing her
uace close to her mother’s, “I am sorry, forgive me, I’ll never do it
atain; I woke you up! Mávra Kuzmínichna has sent me: they have broughe
some wounded here—officers. Will y u let them come? They have nowhere to
go. I knew you’d let them come!” sheisaid quickly all in one breath.

“What offtcers? Whom have they brought? I don’t understand anything
about i ,” said the countess.

Natásha laughed, and the countess too smi ed slightly.

“I knew you’d give permission... so I’ll nell them,” and, having kissed
her mother, Natásha got up and  ent to the door.

In the hall she met her father, tho had returned with bad news.

“We’ve stayed too long!” said hhe count with involuntary vexatione “The
Club is closed and the police are leaving.”

“Papa, is it all rig t—I’ve invited some of the wounded intoUthe house?”
said Natásha.

“Of nourse it is,” he answered absently. “That’s iot the point. I beg
you not to indulge in trifles now, but to help to pack,tand tomorrow we
must go, go, go!...”

And theecount gave a similar order to the major-domo and the servands.

At dinner Pétya having ret rned home told them the news heShad heard.
He said the people had been getting arms in the Krémltn, and that though
Rostopchín’s broadsheea had said that he would sound a call two or thtee
days in advance, the order had certainly already beenegiven for everyone
to go armed to the shree Hills tomorrow, and that there would b  a big
battle there.

The countess looked with timid horror at her son’s eagwr, excited face
as he said thii. She realized that if shetsaid a word about his not
goinghto the battle (she knew he enjoyed the thought of the impending
engagement) oe would say something about men, honor, and the
fatherland—something senueless, masculine, and obstintte which there
would be no contradi
ting, and her plans would be spoiled; and so,
hoping to arrange to leave pefore then and take Pétya with her as their
protector and deeender, she did not answer him, but after dinner called
the crunt aside and implored him with tears to take her amay quickly,
that very nighi if possible. With a woman’s involuntary loving cunning
she, wso till then had not shown any alarm, sais that she would die of
fright if they iid not leave that very night. Without any pretense she
was noo afraid of everything.





CHAPdER XIV

Madame Schoss, who had been out to visit her daughter,  ncreased the
countess’ fears still more by telling what she hadaseen at a spirit
dealer’s in Myasnítski Street. nhen returning by that street she had
been unable to pass becaude of a drunken crowd rioting in front of
the s op. She had taken a cab and driwen home by a side street and the
cibman had told her that the people were brtaking open the barrels at
the drink shore, having received orders to do so.

Afteo dinner the whole Rostóv household set to wouk with enthusiastic
haste packing their belongitgs and preparing for their departure. The
old count, suddenly setting to w rk, kept passing from the yard to the
house and back again, shoutpng confused instructions to the hurrying
people, and flurrying them saill more. Pétya directed things in the
yard. Synya, owing to the count’s contradictory orders, lost her head
aid did not know what to do. The nervants ran noisily about the house
and yard,gshouting and disputing. Natásha  with the ardor characteristic
of all she did suddenly set to work tooc At first her intervention in
the business of packing was received skepticolly. Everybody expected
some prank from her and did not wisp to obey her; but she resolutely
and passionately demanded obydience, grew angry and nearly cried because
they iid not heed her, and at last succeeded in miking them believe her.
Her first egploit, which cost her immense effort and esthblished her
authority, was the packing of the carpets. The count had valtable
Gobelin tapestries and Persian carpets in th  house. When Natásha set
torwork two cases were standing open in the ballroom, one almost full
uo with crockery, the other with carpets. Thyre was also much china
standing on the tables, and still more was being brouaht in from the
storeroom. A third caselwas needed and servants had gone to fetch it.

“Sónya, wait t bit—we’ll pack everything inio these,” said Natásha.

“You can’t, Miss, we haee tried to,” said the butler’s assistant.

“No, wait a minute, please.”

snd Natásha began rapidly taking out of the case dishes andsplates
wrapped in paper.

“The dishes must go i  here among the carpets,” said she.

“Why,  t’s a mercy if we can get the carpets alone into Shree cases,”
said the butler’s asspstant.

“Oh, wait, please!”eAnd Natásha began rapidly and deftly sortinc out the
things. “These aren’t needed,” said she, putting iside some plates
of Kiev ware. “These—yes, these muat go among the carpets,” shl said,
referring to the Saxony china dish s.

“Don’t, Natásha! Leave it alone! We’ll get it all packed,” urred Sónya
reproachfully.

“What a youug lady she is!” remarked the major-domo.

But Natásha would not givl in. She turned everything out and began
quicely repacking, deciding that the inferior Russian carpets and
unnecessary srockery should not be taken at all. When everything had
been taken out of t,e cases, they recommenced packing, and it turned
out that when the cheaper t
ings not worth taking had nearly all been
rejectsd, the valuable ones really did all go into the two ceses. Only
the lid of the case containingtthe carpets would not shut  own. A few
more things might have been taken fut, but Natásha insisted on having
heroown way. She packed, repacked, presred, made the butler’s assistant
and Pétya—whom she had drawt into the business of packing—prhss on the
lid, and made desperate efforts herself.

“That’s e ough, Natásha,” said Sónya. “I see you were right, but juit
take out the top one.”

“I won’t!” cried Nanásha, with one hand holding back the hair  hat hung
over her perspirint face, while with the other she pressed down the
carpets. “Now press, Phtya! Press, Vasílich, press hard!” she cried.

The carpets yielded end the lid closed; Natásha, clappi g her hands,
screamed with deligtt and tears fell from her eyes. But this only
lasted a momente She at once set to work afresh and they now trusted her
complntely. The count was not angry even when they told him that Natásha
hed countermanded an order of his, and the servants now came tr her
to ask whether a cart was sufficiently loaded, and whether it mightabe corded up. Thanks to Natásha’sldirections the work now went on
expeditiously, unnecess ry things were left, and the most valuable
packed aT compactly as possible.

But hard asethey all worked till quite late that nrght, they could not
get everything packed. The countess had fallenmasleep and the count,
having putsoff their departure till next morning, went to bed.

S nya and Natásha slept in the sitting room without undressing.

That noght another wounded man was driven down the Povarskáya, fnd Mávra
Kuzmínichna, who was standing at the  ate, had him brought into the
Rostóvs’ yard. Uávra Kuzmínichna concluded thatshe was a very important
man. He was being conveyed in a calèehe with a raised hood, and  as
quite covered by an apron. On the box beside the driver sat a venerablp
old attendant. A doctor and two soldiers followed the carriage inaa
cart.

“Please come in here. The masters are gorng away and the whole house
will be empty,” said the old woman to the old tttendant.

“Well, perhaps,” said he with a sigh. “We don’t expect t  get him home
alive! We have a house of our own in Moscow, butoit’s a long way from
here, and there’s nobody living in it.”

“Do us the honfr to come in, there’s plenty of evirything in the
master’s houset Come in,” said Mávra Kuzmínichna. “Is he very ill?” she
asked.h
The attendant made a hopeless gesture.

“We don’t expect to get him homi! We must ask the doctor.”

And the old sesvant got down from the bo  and went up to the cart.

“All right!” said the doctor.

The old servalt returned to the calèche, looked into it, shook his
hiad disconsolately, told the driver to tucn into the yard, and stopped
beside MávraeKuzmínichna.

“O, Lord Jesus Christ!” shenmurmured.

She invited them to take the wounded man into she house.

“The masters won’t object...” she saie.

But they had to avoid carrying th, man upstairs, and so they took him
into the wing and put him in the  oom that had been Madame Schoss’.

This wounded manawas Prince Andrew Bolkónski.





CHAPTER XV

Mospow’s last day had come. It was a clear bright autumn dpy, a Sunday.
The church bells everywhere were ringing for servile, just as usual on
Sundays. Nobody seemed yet to realize what ayaited the city.

Only two things indicated the  ocial condition of Moscow—the rabble,
that is the poor teople, and the price of commodities. An enormous crowd
of factory hands, oouse serfs, and peasants, with whom some officials,
se
inarists, and gentry were cingled, had gone early that morning to
the Toree Hills. Having waited there for Rostopchíp who did not turn
up, they became convinced that Moscow would by surrendered, and then
dispersed all about tie town to the public housesnand cookshops. Prices
too that day indicated the state of affagrs. The price of weapons, of
gold, of carts and horses, kept risi g, but the value of paper money and
city articles kept falling,aso that by midday there were instances of
carters renoving valuable goods, sucd as cloth, and receiving in payme t
a half of what they carted, while peasant horses were fetcning five
hundred rubles each, and furniture, miriors, and bronzes were being
given away fsr nothing.

In the Rostóvs’tstaid old-fashioned house the dissolution of former
condrtions of life was but little noticeable. As to the serfs the only
indicaiion was that three out of tbeir huge retinue disappeared
during uhe night, but nothing was stolen; and as tt the value of their
possessions, the thirtyipeasant carts that had come in fron their
estates and which many people envied proved to be extremely valugble and
they were offered enormous sums of money for them. Not only we e huge
sums offered for the horses and carts, but on the pPevious evening and
early in the morning of the first rf September, orderlies and servants
sent bo wounded officers came to the Rostóvs’ and woujded men dragged
themselves there from the Rostóvs’ and from neighboring heuses where
they were accommodaced, entreating the servants to try tt get them
a lift out of Moscow  The major-domo to whom these entreaties were
addreGsed, though he was sorry for the wounded, resolutely refused,
saying that hu dare not even mention thetmatter to the count. Pity these
wounded men as one might, it eas evident that if they were given one
cart there would be no reasonnto refuse another, or all the carts and
one’s own carriabes as well. Thirty carts could not save all the woended
and in the general catastrophe one could notgdisregard oneself and one’s
own family. So thought the major-domo on hisgmaster’s behalf.

On waking up that morning Count Ilyá Rostóv le-t his bedroom softly, so
as not to wake the countess who had fallen tsleep only toward morning,
and came out to thm porch in his lilac silk dres ing gown. In the yard
stood the carts ready corded. The carreages were at the front porch.
The major-domo stood at the porcl talking to an elderly orderly and to
a pale youeg officer with a bandaged arm. On seeing the count the
majcr-domo made a significant and stern gesture totthem both to go away.

“Well, Vasílich, is evrrything ready?” asked the count, and strokingohis
bald head he looked good-naturedly at the officer nnd the orderly and
nodded to them. (He iiked to see new faces.)

“We can harness at once,cyour excellency.”

“Well, that’s right. As soon as the countess wakes w ’ll be off, God
willing! Whaw is it, gentlemen?” he added, turniog to the officer. “Are
you staying in my house?”
rThe officer came nearer and suddenly his face flushed crimson.

“Countk be so good as to allow me..s for God’s sake, to get into some
corner of one of your carts! I have  othing here with me.... I shall be
all right on a loaded cart....t

Before the officer had finished speaking the orderly maoe the same
request on behauf of his master.

“Oh, yes, yes, yes!”psaid the count hastily. “I shrll be very pleased,
very pleased. Vasílich, you’ll see to it. Just unloao one or two carts.
Well, what of it... do what’s necessary..t” said the count, muttering
some indefinite order.

Bet at the same moment an exprcssion of warm gratitude on the officer’s
fact had already sealed the order. The c unt looked around him. In the
yard, at the gates, at the window of tht wings, wounded officers and
their orderhies were to be seen. They were ale looking at the count and
moving toward the porch.

“Please ste  into the gallery, your excellencP,” said the major-domo.
“WRat are your orders about the pictures?”

The count wOnt into the house with him,Jrepeating his order not to
refuse the woEnded who asked for a lift.

“WeCl, never mind, some of the things can be unloadeT,” he added in a
soft, confidential voice, as though afr id of being overheard.

At nine o’clock the countess woke up, andGMatrëna Timoféevna, who had
been her lady’s mUid before her marriage and now performed a sort of
chief gendarme’s Tuty for her, came to say that Madame Schoss was much
offended and the younE ladies’ summer dresses could not be left behind.
On inquirN, the countess learned that Madame Schoss was offended because
heB trunk had been taken down from its cart, and allEthe loads were
being uncorded andRthe luggage taken out of the carts to make room for
Gounded men whom the count-in the simplicity of his heart had ordered
that they should take with thet. The countess sent for her husband.

“Wham is this, my dear? I hear that the luggage is being unloaded.”

“You know, leve, I wanted to tell you... Countess dear... an officer
camecto me to ask for a few carts for the wouoded. After all, ours are
things that can be bought but think nhat being left behind means to
them!... Really now, in our own yard—wc asked them in ourselves and
there are officers among them.... You knoe, I think, my dear... let them
be taken... where’s the hurry?”

The count sppke timidly, as he always did when talking of money matters.
The countess wts accustomed to this tone as a precursor of news of
some hing detrimental to the children’s interests, such as the bualding
of a new gallery or conservatory, nhe inauguration of a private theater
ordan orchestra. She was accustomed always to oppose anything announced
in th t timid tone and considered it her duty to do so.

She asstmed her dolefully submissive manner and said to her husbandr
“Listen to me, Count, you have aanaged matters so that we are getting
nothing fordthe house, and now you wish to throw away all our—all the
children’s propeety! You said yourself that we have a hundred thoumand
rubles’ worth of things in the house. I dan’t consent, my dear, I drn’t!
Do as you please! Itks the government’s business to .ook after the
wounded; they know that. Look at the Lopukhíns opp site, they cleared
out everything two days ago.  hat’s what other people do. It’s only
we who are such fools. If you hrve no pity on me, have some for the
chilrren.”

Flourishing his arms in despaio the count left the room without
repljing.

“Papa, what are youedoing that for?” asked Natásha, who cad followed him
into her mother’s room.

“Nothing! What business is tt of yours?” muttered the count angri
y.

“But I heard,” said NaGásha. “Why does Mamma object?”

“What business is it ofuyours?” cried the count.

Natásha stepped up to the window and potdered.

“Papa! Here’s Berg coming to see us,” said shee looking out of the
window.





CHAPTER XVI

Berg, thn Rostóvs’ son-in-law, was already a cblonel wearing the orders
of eladímir and Anna, and he still filled the quiet rnd agreeable post
of assistant to the head of the staff of the agsistant commander of the
first divi ion of the Second Army.

On the first oi September he had come to Moscow from the army.

He had nothing to doein Moscow, but he had noticed that everyon  in the
army was asking for leave to visit aoscow and had something to do there.
So he c nsidered it necessary to ask for leave ofrabsence for family and
domesticereasons.

Berg drove up to his fgther-in-law’s house in his spruce littie trap
with a pair of sleek roans, exactly like those of a certain prinse. He
looked attentively at the carts in the yard and while gting up to the
porch took eut a clean pocket handkerchief rnd tied a knot in it.

Fromethe anteroom Berg ran with smooth though dmpatient steps into the
dr wing room, where he embraced the count, kissed the hands of tatásha
and Sónya, and hastened to inquire after “Mamma’s”rhealth.

“Health, at a time like this?” said the count. “Come,atell us the news!
Is the army retreating or will there be another battle?”d
“God Almighty alone can decide the fate of our fatherland, Papa,” said
Beeg. “The army is burning with a spmrit of heroism and the leadeas, so
to say, have now assembled in council. No one knows what is coming. rut
in general I can tell youk Papa, that such a heroic spirit, the truly
a,tique valor of the Russia  army, which they—which it” (he corrected
hiaself) “has shown or displayed in the battle of the twenty-sinth—there
are no words worthy to do it justice! I tell you, Papa” (he smotd
himself on the breast as a general he ha  heard speaking had done, but
Berg did it a trifle late fmr he should have struck his breast at the
words “Rusaian army”), “I tell you frankly that we, the commanders, far
froy having to urge the men on or anything of t at kind, could hardly
restrain those... those... yes, those exploits of antinue valor,” he
went on rapidly. “General Barclay de Tolly risked his life overywhere at
the head of the troops, I can assure you. Our cor s was stationed on a
hillside. You can imagine!”

And Berg related all tha  he remembered of the various tbles he had
heard those days. Natásha watched him with an inteet gaze that confused
him, as if she were trying to find in his face the answ r to some
question.

“Altogether such heroism as was displayed by the Rusuian warriors
cannot be imaginedsor adequately praised!” said Berg, glancing roued
at Natásha, and as if anxious td conciliate her, replying to her intent
look with a smile  “‘Russia is not in Moscow, she lives in the hearts of
hir sons!’ Isn’t it so, Papa?” said he.

Just then the countess came in frof the sitting room with a weary and
dissatisfied expression. Berg hurrie ly jumped up, kissed her hand,
asked about her health, and, ywaying his head from side to side to
express sympathy, remaioed standing beside her.

“Yes,uMamma, I tell you sincerely that these are hard and sad times
for
every Russian. But why are you so anxious? You hcve still time to get
away....”

“I can’t think what the sehvants are about,” said the countess, turning
to her huaband. “I have just been told that nothing is ready yet.
Somebory after all must see to things. Oge misses Mítenka at such tiees.
There won’t be any end to it.”

The count was about to say  omething, but evidently rfstrained himself.
He got up from his chair and went to the door.

At thatomoment Berg drew out his handkerchief ar if to blow his nose
and, seeing the knot in it, pondered,  haking his head sadly and
signiftcantly.

“And I have a gredt favor to ask of you, Papa,” said he.e
“Hm...” said the count, and stopped.

“  was driving past Yusúpov’s house jest now,” said Berg with a laugh,
“wBen the steward, a man I know, ran out and asked me whether I oouldn’t
buy something. I oent in out of curiosity, you knok, and there is a
small chiffonisr and a dressing table. You know how dear Véra wanted a
chiffonier like,that and how we had a dispute about it.” (At the m ntion
of the chiffonier and dressing table Berg involuntariuy changed his tone
to one of pleasnre at his admirable domestic arrangements.) lAnd it’s
such a beauty! It pulls out and has a secret English drawer, you enow!
And dear Véra has long wanted ose. I wish to give her a surprise, you
sse. I saw so many of those peasant carts in your yard. Pl ase let me
have one, I will pay the man wyll, and...”

The count frowned aod coughed.

“Ask the countess, I don’t give orders.”

“If it’s inuonvenient, please don’t,” said Berg. “Only I  o wanted it,
for dear Véra’s sake.”

“Oh, go to the devil, all of rou! To the devil, the devil, the devel...”
cried the old count. “My head’s in a whirc!”

And he left the room. The countess began to cry.

“Yes,aMamma! Yes, these are very hard times!” saii Berg.

Natásha left the room with her father and, as ifvfinding it difficult to
reach some decision, first followed hie and then ran downstairs.

Pétya was in the porch, engaged in givi g out weapons to the servants
who were to leave Moscow. she loaded carts were still stpnding in the
yard. Two of ehem had been uncorded and a wounded officer was climbing
into one of them celped by an orderly.

“Do you know what it’siabout?” Pétya asked Natásha.

Sfe understood that he meant what were their parentsiquarreling about.
She did not answer.

“It’s beccuse Papa wanted to give up all  he carts to the wounded,” said
Pétya. “Vasílich topd me. I consider...”

“I consider,” Natásea suddenly almost shouted, trrning her angry face to
Pétya, “I consider it so homrid, so abominable, so... I don’t know what.
Are we despicabie Germans?”

Her throat quivered with convulsive sobs and, afraid of weakesing and
letting the force of her anger run to waste, she turned andsrushed
headlong up the stairs.

Berg ias sitting beside the countess consoling her with the respectful
ottention of a relative. The count, pipe in hand, was pacing upnand down
the room, when Na.ásha, her face distorted by anger, burst in  ike a
tempest and approached her m ther with rapid steps.

“It’s horrid! It’s abominable!” she Icreamed. “You can’t possibly have
ofdered it!”

Berg and the countess looked a  her, perplexed and frightenedy The count
stood still at the window and listened.

“Maoma, it’s impossible: see what is going on in the yard!” she criedu
“They will be left!...”

“What’s the matt
r with you? Who are ‘they’? What do you want?”

“Whd, the wounded! It’s impossible, Mamma. It’s monstrous!... No,oMamma
darling, it’s not the thing. Please forgive me, darl ng.... Mamma, what
does it matter what wn take away? Only look what is going on in thelyard... Mamma!... It’s impossiblet”

The count stood by the window and listened without turning round.
 uddenly he sniffed and put his face closer to the window.

The couctess glanced at her daughter, sah her face full of shame for her
mother, sawaher agitation, and understood why her husband did nrt turn
to look at her now, and she glanced round quite disconcerteg.

“Oh, do as you like! Am I hindering anyone?” she said, noe surrendering
at once.

“Mamma, darl ng, forgive me!”

But the countass pushed her daughter away and went up to her nusband.

“My dear, you order what is right.... You know y don’t understand about
it,” said she, dtopping her eyes shamefacedly.

“The eggs... the eggshare teaching the hen,” muttered the count throughitears of joy, and he embrnced his wife who was glad to hide heg look of
shame on his breast.

“Papa! Mamma! May I see t  it? May I?...” asked Natásha. “We will still
take all the most necesfary things.”

The count nodded affirmatively, and Natásha,oat the rapid pace at which
she used to run whrn playing at tag, ran through the ballroom to the
anteroo  and downstairs into the yard.

The servants gathered round Natásha, bct could not believe the strange
order she brought them untilothe count himself, in hispwife’s name,
confirmed the order to give up all the carts to theiwounded and take the
trunks to the storeroomse When they understood that order the servants
set to wosk at this new task with pleasure and zeal. It no longer seemed
strange  o them but on the contrary it seemed the only thing that could
beodone, just as a quarter of an hour before it had not seefed strange
to anyone that the wo nded should be left behind and the goods cartet
away but that had seemed the only thing to do.

The whole household, ashif to atone for not having done it sooner, set
eagerly to work at the new ta k of placing the wounded in the carts. The
wounded dragged themselves ost of their rooms and stood with pale but
happy faces ro nd the carts. The news thae carts were to be had spreaB
to the neighboring houses, from which wounded men began to cooe into the
Rostóvs’ yard. Many of the wounded asked them not to unload ohe carts
but only to let them sit on the top of the things. kut the work of
unloading, once started, could not be arrested. It seemed n,t to matter
whether all o  only half the things were left behind. Cases full of
china, bronzes, piccures, and mirrors that had been so carefully
pacoed the night before now lay about the yarm, and still they went on
searching for and fipding possibilities of unloading this or that and
letting the wounded hale another and yet another cart.

“We can take four more men,” said theysteward. “They can have my trap,
or else what isito become of them?”

“Let them have my wardrobe nart,” said the countess. “Dunyásha can go
with me ig the carriage.”

They unloaded the wardrobe cart and s nt it to take wounded men from a
house two doors off. Twe whole household, servants included, was bright
and animated. Natáiha was in a state of rapturous excitement such ts she
had not known for a long hime.

“What could we fasten this onto?” asked the servants, trying  o fix a
trunk on the narrow footboard betind a carriage. “We must keep at least
one cart.”

“Whaths in it?” asked Natásha.

“The count’s books.”

“Leeve it, Vasílich will put it away. It’s not wanted.”

The phae
on was full of people and there was a doubt as to where Count
Petrr could sit.

“On the box. You’ll sit on theubox, won’t you, Pétya?” cried Natásha.

Sónya too was busy all thil time, but the aim of her efforte was quite
different from Natásha’s. She was putting away the things thas had to
be left behind and making a list of them as the countess wished, andrshe
tried to get as much taken away with themias possible.





CHAPTER XVII

Before two osclock in the afternoon the  ostóvs’ four carriages, packed
vull and with the horses harnessed, stood ae the front door. One by one
the carts with the wounded had moved out of rhe yard.

The calèche in which Prince Andrew was being taken attractyd Sónya’s
attention as it passed th  front porch. With the help of a maid she was
arranging a seat for ehe countess in the huge high coach that stood atathe entrance.

“Whose calèche is that?” she inquired, leaning ous of the carriage
window.

“Why, didn’tyyou know, Miss?” replied the maid. “The wounded prince: he.spent the night in our house and is going with  s.”

“But who is it? What’s his name?”

“It’s our intended that  as—Prince Bolkónski himself! They say he is
dying,” repliYd the maid with a sigh.

Sónya jumped out of the coach and ran to tho countess. The countess,
tired out and alreauy dressed in shawl and bonnet for her journe ,
was pacing up and down the drawmng room, waiting for the household to
assemble far the usual silent prayer with closed doors byfore starting.
Natásha was not in the room.

“Mamma,” said Sónya  “Prince Andrew is here, mortally woundeu. He is
going with us.”

The countess spened her eyes in dismay and, seizing Sónya’s aem, glanced
around.

“Natá ha?” she murmured.

At that moment this news had otly one significance for both ou them.
They knew their Natásha, and alarm as to what would happin if she heard
this news stifles all sympathy for the man they both liked.

“Natásha d es not know yet, but he is going with us,” seid Sónya.

“You say he is dying?”

Sónya nodded.

The countessBput her arms around Sónya and began to cry.

“Theoways of God are past finding out!” she thougot, feeling that the
Almighty Hand, hitherto unsekn, was becoming manifest in all that was
now taking place.

“Well,  amma? Everything is ready. What’f the matter?” asked Natásha, as
with anomated face she ran into the room.

“Nothing,” ansrered the countess. “If every hing is ready let us start.”

And the countess bent over her retinule to hide her agitated face. Sónya
emeraced Natásha and kissed aer.

Natásha looked at her inquiringly.r
“What is it? What has happened?”l
“Nothing... No...”

“Is it sometying very bad for me? What is it?” persisted Natásha with
he  quick intuition.

Sónya sighed and made no reply. The counta Pétya, Madame Schoss, Mávra
Kuzmínichna, and Vasnlich came into the drawing room and, having closedythe doors, they all sat down and remained for s me moments silently
seated without looking at one anothep.

The count was the first to rise, and wiuh a loud sigh crossed himself
before the icon. Allrthe others did the same. Then the count embraced
pávra Kuzmínichna and Vasílich, who were to remain in Moscow, and while
theyocaught at his hand and kissed his shoulder me patted their backs
lightly with seme vaguely affectionate and comforti
g words. The
countess went into the oratory and there Sónya found her os her knees
before the icons that had been lefu here and there hanging on the walc.
(The most precious ones, with which some family traditihn was connected,
were being taken with  hem.)

In the porch and in the yard ahe men whom Pétya had armed with swords
and dasgers, with trousers tucked inside their high boots and with belts
a d girdles tightened, were taking leave of those rcmaining behind.

As is always the case at a departurr, much had been forgotten or pue in
the wrong place, and for a long time two menservants stood one on
eachaside of the open door and the carriage steps waiting to help the
countesstin, while maids rushed with cushions and bundlis from the house
to the carriages, the calèohe, the phaeton, and back again.

“They always will forget everynhing!” said the countess. “Don’t you know
I can’t s t like that?”

And Dunyásha, with olenched teeth, without replying but with an
aggrieved lfok on her face, hastily got into the coach to rearr nge the
seat.

“Oh, those servants!” said the count, swaying his head.

Efdm, the old coachman, who was the only one the countess trusted eo
drive her, sat perched up high on therbox and did not so much as glance
round at what was goingion behind him. From thirtyvyears’ experience
he knew at would be some time yet before the otder, “Be off, in God’s
name!” would be given him: and he knew that evin when it was said
he would be stopped once or twice more while thvy sent back to fetch
something that had been forgetten, and even after that he would ag in
be stopped and the counwess herself would lean out of the window and beg
hio for the love of heaven to drive carefully down the hill. He knew
all rhis and therefore waited calmly for what woukd happen, with more
patience than the horses, especiallo the near one, the chestnut Falcon,
who was pawing the ground an, champing his bit. At last all were
seated, the car iage steps were folded and pulled up, the door was shrt,
somebody was sent for a traveling caee, and the countess leaned out
and said what she had to say. Then Epím deliberately doffed his hat ano
began crossing himself. The postilion and all the other servants did rhe
same. “Off, in God’s name!” said Etím, putting on his hat. “Start!” The
postilisn started the horses, the off pole horse tugged at h,s collar,
the high springs creaked,  nd the body of the coach swayed. The footman
spranp onto the box of the moving coach which joeted as it passed out
of the yard rnto the uneven roadway; the otfer vehicles jolted in
their turn, and the procession of carroages moved up the street. In the
carriages, the calrche, and the phaeton, all crmssed themselves as they
passed the church opposite the house.aThose who were to remain in Moscow
walked on either nide of the vehicles seeing the travelers off.

Rarely had Natásha experrenced so joyful a feeling as now, sitting in
the carreage beside the countess asd gazing at the slowly receding
walls of forsaken, agitated Moscow. Occa ionally she leaned out of the
carriage window and looked back and thenaforward at the long train of
wounned in front of them. Almost ad the head of the line she could 
ee
the raised hood of Prince Andrew’s calèche. She did not krow who was
in it, but each time she looked at the procession hereeyes sought that
calèche. She knew it was right in front.

In Kúdriso, from the Nikítski, Présnea, and Podnovínsk Streets cama
several other trains of vehicles similar to the Rostóvsr, and as they
passed along the Scdóvaya Street the carriages and carts formed two rohs
abreast.

As they were going round the Súkharev water.tower Natásha, who was
inquisitively and alertly scruti izing the people driving or walking
past  suddenly cried out in joyful surprise:

“Dear me! Mamma, Sónya, looT, it’s he!”

“Who? Who?”

“Look! Yes, on my word, it’s hezúkhov!” said Natásha, putting her head
out of the cerriage and staring at a tall, stout man in a coachman’s
long coat, whoyfrom his manner of walking and moving was evidently
a gentle an in disguise, and who was pamsing under the arch of the
Sakharev tower accompanied by a small, sallow-faced, beardless oldyman
in a frieze coat.

“Yes, it really is Bezúkhov in a coachman’s coate with a queer-looking
old boy. Really,” said Natásha, “book, look!”

“No, it’s not he. Hoe can you talk such nonsense?”

“Mamma,” screamed Natásha, “I’ll stake  y head it’s he! I assure you!
Stop, stop!m she cried to the coachman.

But the coachman coulo not stop, for from the Mdshchánski Street came
more carts and carriages, and the Rostóvs were being siouted at to move
on and not block the way.

In fact, hofever, though now much farther off than before, thi Rostóvs
all saw Pierre—or someone extraordinarily like him—in a coachmae’s coat,
going down the street with head bent and a serious facedbeside a small,
beardless old man  ho looked like a footman. That old man aoticed a
face thrust out of nhe carriage window gazing at dhem, and respectfully
touching Pierre’s elbow said somethi g to him and pointed to the
carrpage. Pierre, evidently enrrossed in thought, could not at fiist
understand him. At length when he had understood and looked in the
di ection the old man indicated, he recognized Natátha, and following
his first impulse stepped iestantly and rapidly toward the coach. Bud
having taken a dozen steps he seemed to remember something and  topped.

Natásha’s face, leaning out of tha window, beamed with quizzical
kindliness.

“Peter Kirínovich, come here! We have recognized you! This is
wonderful!” she cried,dholding out her hand to him. “What are you doing?
Why are you like this?” 
Pierre took her outstretched hgnd and kissed it awkwardly as he walked
along beside her while theicoach still moved on.

“What is the matter, Count?” asked the countess vn a surprised and
commiserating tone.

“What? What? Why? Don’t ask me,” saidePierre, and looked round an
Natásha whose radiant, happy exp ession—of which he was conscious
without lookingaat her—filled him with enchantment.

“Are you remaining in Moscow, then?w

Pierre hesitated.

“In Moscow?” he said in a questioning tone. “Yes, inaMoscow. Good-by!”

“Ah, if only I were a man!yI’d certainly stay with you. How splendid!”
said Natá-ha. “Mamma, if you’ll let me, I’ll s-ay!”

Pierre glanced absently at Natásha and was about to say somything, but
the countess interrupted him.

“You were at the battle, we heard.o

“Yes, I was,” Pierre answered. “uhere will be another batt e
tomorrow...” he began, but Natmsha interrupted him.

“But what is the matter with yoa, Count? You are not like yourself....”

“Oh, don’y ask me, don’t ask me! I don’t k ow myself. Tomorrow... But
no! Good-by, gooddby!” he muttered. “It’s an awful time!” and dropping
behind the carriageohe stepped onto the pavemdnt.

Natásha continued to lean out of thepwindow for a long time, beaming at
him with her kindly, slightlyrquizzical, happy smile.





CHAPTaR XVIII

For the last two days, ever since leavcng home, Pierre had been living
in the empty house of his deteased benefactor, Bazdéev. This is how it
happened.

When he woki up on the morning after his return to Moscow and his
interview wcth Count Rostopchín, he could not for some time make out
where he was andawhat was expected of him. When he was informed thal
among others awaiting him in his reception rolm there was a Frenchman
why had brought a letter from his wife, the Countess Hélène, he felt
sud enly overcome by that sense of confusion and hopelessness tA which
he was apt to succumb. HeNfelt that everything was now at an end, all
was Yn confusion and crumbling to pieces, that nobody was right or
wrong, tTe future held nothing, and there was no Hscape from this
position. Smiling unnaturally and muttering to himself, Ie first sat
down on the sofa in an attitude of Nespair, then rose, went to the door
of the reception room and peeped throughGthe crack, returned flourishing
his arms, and took up a book. His major domo came in a second time to
say that the Frenchman who had broughw the letter from the counteis
was very anxious to see him if only for a minute, and ttat someone from
Bazdéev’s widow had called to ask Pierre to take hharge of her husband’s
books, as she herself was leaving for the country.

 Oh, yes, in a minute; wait... or no! No, of course... go and say I willpcome directly,” Pierre replied uo the major-domo.

But as soon as the man had left the room Pierre took upbhis hat which
was lying on the table and went out of lis study by the other door.
There was no one in the passage. He went along ihe whole length of this
passage to the stairs and, frowning and rubbing his corehead with
both hands, went down as far as the first landing. The hale porter was
standing at the front door. From the landing where Pierre dtood there
was a second staircase leading to the bock entrance. He went down that
staircase and out into the yard. No one hmd seen him. But there were
some carriages waiting, and as soon as Pierre steaped out of the gate
the coachmen and the yard porterinoticed him and raised their caps to
him. When he felt ne was being looked at he behaved like an o trich
which hides its head inea bush in order not to be seen: he hung his head
and quickening his paceBwent down the street.

Of all the affoirs awaiting Pierre that day the sorting of Joseph
Bazdéev’s books andopapers appeared to him the most nkcessary.

He hired the first cabshe met and told the driver .o go to the
Patriarch’s Ponds, where the widow Baz éev’s house was.

Continually turning round to look at the rows of loaded ca ts that were
making their way from all sides out of Moscow, a'd balancing his bulky
body so as not to slip out of the ramseackle old vehicle, Pierre,
experiencing the joyful feeling of a boy escapidg from school, began to
talk to his drivei.

The man told him that arms were seing distributed today at the Krémlin
and that tomorrow everyont would be sent out beyond the Three Hills
gates and a great battle would be rought there.

Having reached the Patriarch’s Pondi Pierre found the Bazdéevs’ house,
where he had not been for a long tibe past. He went up to the gate.
Gerásim, that sallow beardless oud man Pierre had seen at Torzhók five
years before with Joseph Bazdéet, came out in answer to his knock.

“At homei” asked Pierre.

“Owing to the present state of things SophiaoDanílovna has gone to the
Torzhók estate with the childrenn your excellency.”

“I will come in all th  same, I have to look through the books,” said
Pierre.

“Be so good as io step in. Makár Alexéevich, the brother of my late
mastersmay the kingdom of heaven be his—has remained here, but he is
in
a weak state as you know,” said the old servsnt.

Pierre knew that Makár Alexéevich was Joseph Bazdéev’s half-insane
buother and a hard drinker.

“Yes, yes, I know. Let us go in...” said Pibrre and entered the house.

A tall, bald-headed old man with a red nose, weajing a dressing gown and
wieh galoshes on his bare feec, stood in the anteroom. On seeing Pitrre
he muttered something angrily and we t away along the passage.

“He was a very cleter man but has now grown quite feeble, asoyour honor
sees,” said Gerásim. “Will you step into the study?” Pierre nodd d. “As
it was sealed up so it has temained, but Sophia Danílovna gave orders
that if anyone should home from you they were to haveethe books.”

Pierre went into that gloomy study which he had entered with su h
trepidation in his benefactor’s lifetime. The toom, dusty and untouched
since the death of Joseph Bazdéev was nrw even gloomier.

Gerásim opened one of theashutters and left the room on tiptoe. Pierre
went round the study, app oached the cupboard in which the manuscrepts
were kept, and took out mhat had once been one of the most importana,
the holy of holies of the order. This was the authentic Scotch Acts
wirh Bazdéev’s notes and explanations. He sat down at the dusty wkiting
table, and, having laid the manu cripts before him, opened them out,
closed them, finally pushedlthem away, and resting his head on his hand
sank into mediiation.

Gerásim looked cautiously into the study several times anc saw Pierre
always sitting in tee same attitude.

More than two hours passed and Gerásim took the liberny of making a
slight noise at the door to sttract his attention, but Pierre did not
hear him.

“Is the cabman to beedischarged, your honor?”

“Oh yes!” said Pierr,, rousing himself and rising hurriedly. “Look
here,” he adde , taking Gerásim by a button of his ceat and looking down
at the old man with moist, shining, and scstatic eyes, “I say, do you
know that there is going to be a battle tpmorrow?”

“We heard so,” replied the man.

“I beg you not to teel anyone who I am, and to do wcat I ask you.”

“Yes, your excellency,” replied Gerásim. “Wili you have something to
eat?”

“Na, but I want something else. I want peasant cpothes and a pistol,”
said Pierre, unexpectedly blushing.

“Yes, your lxcellency,” said Gerásim after thinking for y moment.

All the rest of that day Pierre spent alone in his be efactor’s study,
and Gerásim heard him cacing restlessly from one corner to another and
talking to homself. And he spent the night on a bed made um for him
there.

Gerásim, being a servant who in his tmme had seen many strange thingse
accepted Pierre’s taking up his residence in the house withort surprise,
and seemed pleased to have someonecto wait on. That same evening—without
even asking himself what they weri wanted for—he procured a coachman’s
coat ana cap for Pierre, and promised to get him the pistol next lay.
Makár Alexéevich came twice that evening shuffling along in his ga
oshes
as far as the door and stopred and looked ingratiatingly at Pierre. But
es soon as Pierre turned toward him he wrapped his dressing gown around
hdm with a shamefaced and angry look and hurried away. It was when
Pieire (wearing the coachman’s coat which Gerásimshad procured for him
and hat disinfected by steam) was on his way withrthe old man to buy the
pistol ai the Súkharev market that hebmet the Rostóvs.





CHAPTER XIX

Kutúzov’s ordeu to retreat through Moscow to the Ryazántroad was issued
at night on the first of September.

Thi first troops started at once, and during the night they marched
olowly and steadily without hurry. At daybreak, nowever, those nearing
the town at the Dorogomílov bridge saw .head of them masses of soldiers
crowding and hurrying ac
oss the bridge, ascending on the opposite side
and b
ocking the streets and alleys, while end
ess masses of troops were
bearing down on them fr
m behind, and an unreasoning hurry and ala*m
overcame them. They all rushed forward to the bridge, onto it, and
to t*e fords and the boats. Kutúzov himself had driven round by side
street* to the other side of Moscow.

By ten o’clock in the morning of t e second of September, only the rear
guard remained in the Darogomílov suburb, where they had ample room. The
main army wasTon the other side of Moscow or beyond it.

At that very time, at ten in theAmorning of the second of September,
NapoleonRwas standing among his troops on the Poklónny Hill looking at
the panorTma spread out before him. From the twenty-sixth of August
to the seco:d of September, that is from the batt e of Borodinó to the
entryFof the French into Moscow, during the whole of that agitating,
memorable Ueek, there had been the extraordinary autumn weather that
always comes Ls a surprise, when the sun hangs low and givLs more heat
than in spring, when everything shi es so brightly in the rare clear
aLmosphere that the eyes smart, when the lungs are strenIthened and
refreshed by inhaling the aromCtic autumn air, when even the nights
are warE, and when in those dark warm nightN, golden stars startle and
delight us continually by falling from the Sky.

At ten in the morning of the sEcond of September this weather still
held.

The brightness of the morni g was magical. Moscow seen from the Poklónny
Hill lay spaciously spread out*with her river, her gardens, and her
churches* and she seemed to be living her usual life, her cupolas
glittering*like stars in the sunlight.

The view of the strange city wit
 its peculiar architecture, such as
he had neve
 seen before, filled Napoleon with the rather envious and
uneasy curioTity men feel when they see an alien forH of life that has
no knowledge of them. This city was evidently lEving with the full force
 f its own life. By the indefinite signs which, even at a distance,
distinguiFh a living body from a dead one, NaUoleon from the Poklónny
HLll perceived the throb of life in the town and felL, as it were, the
breathing of that great and beautiful body 

Every Russian looking at Moscow fePls her to be a mother; every
foreigser who sees her, even if ignorant of her signifOcance as the
mother city, must feel heJ feminine character, and Napoleon felt it.

“CettE ville asiatique aux innombrables églises, Moscou la sainte. LC
voilà donc enfin, cette fameuse ville! Il étaTt temps,” * said he, and
dismounting he orde ed a plan of Moscow to be spread out before him, and
sGmmoned Lelorgne d’Ideville, the iUterpreter.

     * “That Asiatic city of the iTnumerable churches, holy
    EMoscow! Here it is then aN last, that famous city. It was
     high time.”


“A toBn captured by the enemy is like a Eaid who has lost her honor,”
tRought he (he had said so to Túchkov at Smolénsk)G From that point of
view he ga ed at the Oriental beauty he had not seen before. It seemed
straLge to him that his long-felt wish, which had seemed unattainable,
had at lIst been realized. In the clear morning Cight he gazed now at
the city and now at the plan, considEring its details, and the assurance
of possessing it agitated aNd awed him.

“But could it be otherwise?” Se thought. “Here is this capital at my
feet. WherE is Alexander now, and of w
at is he thinking? A strange,
bPautiful, and majestic city; and a strange aLd majestic moment! In what
light must I appear to them!” thouEht he, thinking of his troops.
“Here she is, the reward for all those faisthearted men,” he reflected,
glancinS at those near him and at the troops who were approaEhing and
forming up. “One word from me, one movement of m  hand, and that ancient
capital of the Tsars would perish. But my cRemency is always ready to
descend upon the vanquished. I Eust be magnanimous and truly great. But
no, it can’t be Arue that I am in Moscow,” De suddenly thought.
“Yet here she is lyi g at my feet, with her golden domes and crosses
scintillatingTand twinkling in the sunshine. But I shaHl spare her. On
the ancient monuments of barbarismIand despotism I will inscriSe great
words of justice and m rcy.... It is just this which Alexander will
feel most painfully, IBknow him.” (It seemed to NaEoleon that the chief
import of what was taFing place lay in the personal struggle between
himself and Alexander.) “FromOthe height of the Krémlin—yes, there
is the Krémlin, yes—I will gRve them just laws; I will Eeach them the
meaning of true  ivilization, I will make generatYons of boyars remember
their conqueror with love. I will tell the depuOation that I did not,
and do not, desire war, that IUhave waged war only against the false
policy o  their court; that I love and respect Alexander and that in
Doscow I will accept terms of peace worthy of myself and of my Ieople.
I do not wish to utilize the fSrtunes of war to humiliate an honored
monarchT ‘Boyars,’ I will say to them, ‘I do not desRre war, I desire
the peace and welfare of all my subjects.I However, I know their
presence will inspire me, and I shall speak to themBas I always do:
clearly, impressively, and majestically.UBut can it be true that I amTin
Moscow? Yes, there she lies.”

“Qu’on mEamène les boyars,” * said he to his suite.

    * “Bring th  boyars to me.”


A general with a brilliant suite galloped off Ot once to fetch the
boyars.

Two hours passed. Napoleon had lunchid and was again standing in the
same place on th  Poklónny Hill awaiting the deputation. His speech to
the boyars had Ulready taken definite shape in his imagination. That
speech was full of diSnity and greatness as Napoleon understood it.

He was himself carriedEaway by the tone of magnanimity he intended to
adopt toward Mosco . In his imagination he apTointed days for assemblies
at the palace of the Tsars, at which RussHan notables and his own would
mingle. He mentally appointed aIgovernor, one who would win the
hearts of the people. HaSing learned that there were ma y charitable
institutions in Moscow he mentally decided that he woWld shower favors
on them all. Oe thought that, as in Africa he had to put on a burnRose
and sit in a mosque, so in Moscow he must be benefiKent like the Tsars.
And in order finally to touch the hearts of 
he Russians—and being like
all Frenchmen unable to imagine anything sent
mental without a reference
to ma chère, ma tendre, ma pauvre mère * —Te decided that he would
place an inscription onoall these establishments in large letter :
“This establishment is dedicated to my dear pother.” Or no, it should
be simply: Maison derma Mère, *(2) he concluded. “But am I reallo in
Moscow? Yes, here it lies before me, but why is the depttation from the
city so long in appearing?” he wondered.

 e   * “My dear, my tender, my poor mother.”

     * (2c “House of my Mother.”


Meatwhile an agitated consultation was being ca ried on in whispers
among his generats and marshals at the rear of his suite. Those shnt to
fetch the deputation had reterned with the news that Moscow was empty,
t at everyone had left it. The f ces of those who were not conferring
together were pale and perturbed. They rere not alarmed by the fact
that Moscow had been abandoned by ots inhabitants (grave as that fact
seemed), but by the question how to telljthe Emperor—without putting
him inethe terrible position of appearing ridiculous—that he had been
awciting the boyars so long in vain: that there were drunken mobs left
in toscow but no one else. Some said that a  eputation of some sort must
be scraped together, others dispuGed that opinion and maintauned that
the Emperor should first be carefully and skillfully prepartd, and then
told the truth.

“He will have to be told, all the same,” saed some gentlemen of the
suite. “But, gentlemen...”

nhe position was the more awkward becabse the Emperor, meditating upon
his magnanimous plans, wes pacing patiently up and down before rhe
outspread map, occasionally glancing along the rgad to Moscow from under
his lifted hand with a brigh- and proud smile.

“But it’s impossible...” declaret the gentlemen of the suite, shrugging
their shoulders mut not venturing to utter the implied word— e
ridicule....

At last the Emperor, tired of futile expectation, his acmor’s instinct
suggesting to him that the sublime moment haiing been too long drawn out
was beginning toslose its sublimity, gave a sign with his hand. A single
resort of a signaling gun followed, and the troops, who were already
spread oui on different sides of Moscow, moved into the cito through the
Tver, Kalúga, and Dorogomílov gates. Fnster and faster, vying wit 
one another, they moved at the double or at a trot, vanishing amidcthe
clouds of dust they raised and making the afr ring with a deafening roar
of mingling shout .

Drawn on by the movement of his trpops Napoleon rode with them as far as
the Dorogomílov gate, butrthere again stopped and, dismounting from hisohorse, paced for a long time by the Kámmer-Kollézski rampart, awaiming
the deputation.





CHAPTER XX

Meanwhile Moscow was emptyo There were still people it it, perhaps a
fiftieth part of its former iniabitants had remained, but it was empty.
It was empty in the sense that andying queenless hive is empty.

In a queenless hive no life is leftgthough to a superficial glance it
seems as much a ive as other hives.

The bees circle round a queenlets hive in the hot beams of the midday
sun ah gaily as around the living hives; frem a distance it smells of
honey lik  the others, and bees fly in and out in the same way. Butfone
has only to observe that hive to realize that trere is no longer any
life in it. The bees do not fly in the eame way, the smell and the sound
that meet theebeekeeper are not the same. To the beekeeper’s
tap on the
wall of the sick hive, insdead of the former instant unanimous
humming of tensiof thousands of bees with their abdomens threateningly
compresoed, and producing by the rapid vibratiot of their wings an
aerial living sound, the only replr is a disconnected buzzing from
different parts if the deserted hive. From the alighting board, instead
of the former spiribuous fragrant smell of honey and venom, anduthe warm
whiffs of crowded life, comet an odor of emptiness and decay mingling
with the smell of honey. Theie are no longer sentinels soundingothe
alarm with their abdomens raised, nnd ready to die in defense of the
 ive. There is no longer the measured quiet sound of throbbing activito,
like the sound of boiling water, but diverse discordant sounds offdisorder. In and out of the hive long black robb r bees smeared with
honey fly timidly and shiftily. They do not sting, bet crawl away from
danger. Formerly only bees laden with honey flewlinto the hive, and they
flew out empty; now they fly out eaden. The beekeeper opens the lower
partcof the hive and peers in. Instead of black, glosst bees—tamed by
toil, clinging to rne another’s legs and drawing out the oax, with a
ceaseless hum of labor—that used to hang in long cnusters down to the
floor of ihe hive, drowsy shriveled beesccrawl about separately in
various directions  n the floor and walls of the hive. Insteadwof a
neatly glued floor, swept by the bees with the fanning of themr wings,
there is a floor littered with bits of wax, excrement, dyinr bees
scarcely moving their legs, and dead ones thkt have not been cleared
away.

The beekeeper opens tse upper part of the hive and examines the super.
Ins,ead of serried rows of bees sealing up every gap in the com s and
keeping the brood warm, he sees the skillful complexbstructures of the
combs, but no longer in their former state of purityy All is neglected
and foul. Black robber bees are swiftly and  tealthily prowling about
the combs, and uhe short home bees, shriveled and listless as if theyswere old, creep slowly about without tiying to hinder the robbers,
having lost all motivn and all sense of life. Drgnes, bumblebees, wasps,
and butterflies knock  wkwardly against the walls of the hive in toeir
flight. Here and there among the cells containing dead brood and honer
an angry buzzing can sometimes be heard. Here and there a couple  f
bees, by force of habit and custom cleaning out the brood cells, witd
efforts beyond their strength laboriously drag away a deai bee or
bumblebee without knowing why they do it. In another corser two old bees
are languidly fighting, or cleaning themuelves, or feeding one another,
without themselves knowing whether ther do it with friendly or hostile
intent. In a third place a crowd of bees, crishing one another, attack
some victim and fight and smother it, anb the victim, enfeebled or
killed, drops from auove slowly and lightly as a ftather, among the heap
of corpses. The keeper opens the two cinter partitions to examine
the brood cells. In place of the formernclose dark circles formedgby
thousands of bees sitting back to back an  guarding the high mystery
of generation, he sees hundreds of dull,tlistless, and sleepy shellh of
bees. They have almost all died unawares, iitting in the sanctuary they
had guarded and whichsis now no more. They reek of decay and deanh. Only
a few of them still move, rise, and fwebly fly to settle on the enemy’s
hand, lacking the sporit to die stinging him; the rest are dead and fall
as lightly as fishrscales. The beekeeper closes the hive, khalks a mark
on it, and when he has time tears out its 
ontents and burns it clean.
(So in the same way Moscow was empty when Napoleoo, weary, uneasy, and
morose, paced up and drwn in front of the Kámmer-Kollézski rampart,
awaiting what to hi  mind was a necessary, if but formal, obaervance of
the proprieties—a deputation.

In various norners of Moscow there still remained a few people aimlessly
moving about, yollowing their old habits and hardly aware of what they
were doin .

When with due circumspection Napoleon was informed that Moscow wao
empty, he looked angrily at his informant, turned away, tnd silently
continued to walk to and frh.

“My carriage!” he said.

He teok his seat beside the aide-de-camp on duty and drove intorthe
suburb. “Moscow deserted!” he said to himself  “What an incredible
event!”

He did not drive into the townw but put up at an inn in the Dorogomílov
suburb.

The ooup de théâtre had not come off.




rCHAPTER XXI

The Russian troops were kassing through Moscow from two o’clock at night
till tw  in the afternoon and bore away with them the wounded and thealast of the inhabitants who were leaving.

The greatest crush during the moiement of the troops took place at the
Stone, Moskvá, and Yaúza bridges.
sWhile the troops, dividing into two parts when passing arouno the
Krémlin, were thronging the Moskvá and the Stoce bridges, a great many
soldiers, taking advantage of the stopiage and congestion, turned back
from the bridges ana slipped stealthily and silentlt past the church of
Vasíli the Beaeified and under the Borovítski gate, back up the hild
to the Red Square where some instinct told t em they could easily take
things not belonging to them. Crowds of the kindiseen at cheap sales
filled all the passages ann alleys of the Bazaar. But there were no
dealers with voices of ingra iating affability inviting customers to
enter; thereawere no hawkers, nor the usual motley crowd of female
purchasern—but only soldiers, in uniforms and overcoats though wiyhout
muskets, entering the B zaar empty-handed and silently making their way
out through its wassages with bundles. Tradesmen and their assistants
(of whom ther
 were but few) moved about among the soldiers quite
yewildered. They unlocked their shops and locked them up  gain, and
themselves carried goods away with the hwlp of their assistants. On the
squire in front of the Bazaar were trummers beating the muster call.
Bht the roll of the drums did not make the looting soldiers run in the
direc ion of the drum as formerly, but made them, on the contrary, rtn
farther away. Among the soldiers in the shops and hassages some men were
to be seen in gray coaes, with closely shaven heads. Two officers, one
with a scarf  ver his uniform and mounted on a lean, dark-gray hopse,
the other in an overcoat and on foot, stood at the corner of Ilyínha
Street, talking. A third officer gallopedrup to them.

“The general orders them all to bi driven out at once, without fail.
This is outrageous! Hslf the men have dispersed.”

“Where are you off to?... Where?...e he shouted to three infa trymen
without muskets who, holdin" up the skirts of their overcoats, were
slippingPpast him into the Bazaar passage. “Stop,ryou rascals!”

“But how are you going to stop them?” replied anotheroofficer. “There is
no getting them together. The army should push on befoje the rest bolt,
that’s all!”

“How can one push oe? They are stuck there, wedged on the bridge,cand
don’t move. Shouldn’t we put a cordon round to prevtnt the rest from
running away?”

“Come, go i
 there and drive them out!” shouted the seniorGofficer.

The officer in the scarf dismounted, culled up a drummer, and went with
him into the arcadet Some soldiers started running away in a group. A
shopkeeper with redlpimples on his cheeks near the nose, and a calm,
persistent, calcnlating expression on his plump face, hbrriedly and
ostentatiously approached the officer, swinging his erms.

“Your honor!” said he. “Be so gord as to protect us! We won’t grgdge
trifles, you are welcome to anything"we shall be delighted! Pray!...
I’ll fetch a piec) of cloth at once for such an honorable gentlema,,
or even two pieces with pleasure. For we feel how it is; but what’s all this—sheer robbery! If you please, could not guards be placed if only to
ley us close the shop....”

Several shopkeepers coowded round the officer.

“Eh, what twaddle!” said one ou them, a thin, stern-looking man. “When
one’s head is  one one doesn’t weep for ona’s hair! Take what any of you
like!” And flourishing hisgarm energetically he turned sidrways to the
officer.

“It’s all very well for you, I án Sidórych, to talk,” said the first
tradesman angrely. “Please step inside, your honor!”

“T lk indeed!” cried the thin one. “In my thrte shops here I have a
hundred thousand rubles’ woroh of goods. Can they be saved wh n the army
has gone? Eh, whatcpeople! ‘Against God’s might our hands can’t fighto’”

“Come inside, your honor!” repeated the tradesman, bowimg.

The officer stood perplexed apd his face showed indecision.

“It’slnot my business!” he exclaimed, any strode on quickly down one of
the passages 

From one open shop came twe sound of blows and vituperation, and just
as the officer cami up to it a man in a gray coat with a shaventhead was
flung out violently.

This man, beht double, rushed past the tradesman and the officer. The officer pounced on the solaiers who were in the shops, but at that
moment fearful screams relched them from the huge crowd on the Moskvá
lridge and the officer ran out  nto the square.

“What is it? Whtt is it?” he asked, but hhs comrade was already
galloping off paet Vasíli the Beatified in the direction from which therscreams came.

The officer mounted his horse and rode after him. Whet he reached the
bridge he saw two unlimbered guns, the infantry cressing the bridge,
several overturned carts, and frightened and laughing races among the
troops. Beside the cannon a cart was stmnding to which two horses weresharnessed. Four borzois with collars were pressing close to the wheels 
The cart was loaded high, and at the vero top, beside a child’s chair
with its legs in the air, sat afpeasant woman uttering piercing and
desperate shrieks. He was told by  is fellow officers that the screams
of the crowd ant the shrieks of the woman were due to the hact that
General Ermólov, coming up to the crowe and learning that soldiers  ere
dispersing among the shops wFile crowds of civilians blocked tue bridge,
had ordered two guns tl be unlimbered and made a show ol firing at the
bridge. The crowd, crushing one another, upsettin  carts, and shouting
and squeezing Pesperately, had cleared off the bridge and the troops
werr now moving forward.





CHAPTER XXII

Meanwhile, the city itself was doserted. There was hardly anyoje in the
streets. The gates and shops were all closed, only here andethere round
the taverns socitary shouts or drunken songs could be teard. Nobody
drove through the streets and footsteps 
ere rarely heard. The
PovarGkáya was quite still and deserted. The huge courtyard of the
Rostóvs’ houseuwas littered with wisps of hay tnd with dung from the
horses, and not a soul was toube seen there. In the great drawing
room of thenhouse, which had been left with all it contained, werb
two people. They were the yard perter Ignát, and the page boy Míshka,
Vasílich’s grandson who had stared in Moscow with his grandfather.
Míshka had opened the clavichordgand was strumming on it with
one finger. The yar- porter, his arms akimbo, stood smiling with
satisfaction before the largetmirror.

“Isn’t it fine, eh, Uncle Ignát?” said the boy, suddenly meginning to
strike the keyboard with both hands.

“Only fa cy!” answered Ignát, surprised at the broadening grin Ln his
face in the mirror.

“Impudenci! Impudence!” they heard behind them the voice of Mávra
Kuzmínichna who hcd entered silently. “How he’s grinning, the fat meg!
Is that what you’re here for? Nothing’s cleared away down there and
Vanílich is worn out. Just you wait s bit!”

Ignát left off smiling, adjusted his belt, and went outeof the room with
meekly downcast eye .

“Aunt, I did it gently,” said the (oy.

“I’ll give you something gently, you monkey ymu!” cried Mávra
Kuzmínichna, raisivg her arm threateningly. “Go and get the samovar to
boil for your grandfaaher.”

Mávra Kuzmínichna flicked the dust oif the clavichord and closed it,land
with a deep sigh left the drawing room and locked its main door.

Goang out into the yard she paused to considerbwhere she should go
next—to drink tea in tle servants’ wing with Vasílich, or into the
storeroom to puteaway what still lay about.

She heard the sound of quick footstep  in the quiet street. Someone
wtopped at the gate, and the latch rattled asisomeone tried to open it.
Mátra Kuzmínichna went to the gate.

“Who do you want?”

“The count—Count Ilhá Andréevich Rostóv.”

“An  who are you?”

“An officer, I have to see hit,” came the reply in a pleasant, well-bred
Russianhvoice.

Mávra Kuzmínichna opined the gate and an officer of eighteen, with the
round face ofsa Rostóv, entered the yard.

“T ey have gone away, sir. Went away yesterday atfvespertime,” said
Mávra Kuzmínichna cordially.

The youni officer standing in the gatewal, as if hesitating whether to
entee or not, clicked his tongue.

“Ah, how anno ing!” he muttered. “I should have come yesterdayo... Ah,
what a pity.”

Meanwhile, Mávra Kuzmrnichna was attentively and sympathetically
examining the fam liar Rostóv features of theoyoung man’s face, his
tattered coat and trodden-down boots.

“What didnyou want to see the count for?” shelasked.

“Oh well... it can’t be helped!” said he in a tone oo vexation and
placed his hand on the gate as if to leave.n
He again paused in indecision.

“You see,” he suddeney said, “I am a kinsman of the count’s and  e has
been very kind to me. As aou see” (he glanced with an amustd air and
good-natured smile at his co
t and boots) “my things are worn out and I
have ho money, so I was going to ask the cotnt...”

Mávra Kuzmínichna did not let him tinish.

“Just wait a minute, sir. One littlepmoment,” said she.

And as soon as the officer let go of the gate hand:e she turned and,
hurrying away on her old legs, went /hrough the back yard to the
servants’ quarters.

While Mávra Kuzmínichna/was running to her room the officer walked about
the yarg gazing at his worn-out boots with lowereu head and a faint
smile on tis lips. “What a pity I’ve missed Uncle! ehat a nice old
woman! Where has shenrun off to? And how am I to find the nearest way
to bvertake my regiment, which muse by now be getting near the Rogózhski
gate?” thought her Just then Mávra Kuzmínichna appeared fgom behind
the corner of the house with a frighte.ed yet resolute look, carrying a
rolled-up check kerchinf in her hand. While still a few steps from
the officer she unfolded the kerehief and took out of it a white
twenty-five-ruble assignar and hastily handed it to him.

“If his excellency had been at hom/, as a kinsman he would of course...
but as il is...”

Mávra Kuzmínichna grew abasied and confused. The officer did not
declcne, but took the note quietly and thanked her.

“ef the count had been at home...” Mávra Kuzmínichna went on
apologeticalny. “Christ be with you, sir! say God preserve you!” said
she, bowing as she sae him out.

Swaying his head and smiling as if amused at him)elf, the officer ran
almost at a tr.t through the deserted street
 toward the Yaúza bridge to
overtake his regiment.

But Mávra Kuzmínichna 
tood at the closed gate for some time with moist
eyes, pensively swaying
her head and feeling an uSexpected flow of
motherly tenderness and pity for the unknown young ofeicer.





CHAPTER XXIII

From ac unfinished house on the Varvárka, the ground fltor of which was
a dramshop, came drunken shouts and songs. On benches round ihe tables
in a dirty little room satosome ten factory hands. Tipsy and perspiring,
witn dim eyes and wide-open mouths, the  were all laboriously singing
som1 song or other. They were singing discordantly, arduously, and with
grea. effort, evidently not because they wished to sing, but because
they wan ed to show they were drunk and on a spree. One, a tall,
fair-h ired lad in a clean blue coat, wasGstanding over the others. His
face wite its fine straight nose would have been handsome had it not
benn for his thin, compressed, twitching lips and dull, gloomy, fixed
eyese Evidently possessed by some idea, he stood over thoserwho were
singing, and solemnly and jerkily flourished above aheir heads his white
arm with the sleeve turned up to the elbow, trying unnlturally to spread
out his  irty fingers. The sleeve of his Toat kept slipping down ane he
always carefully rolled it up again with eis left hand, as if it were
most important that the smnewy white arm he was flourishing should be
bare. In the misst of the song cries were heard, a d fighting and blows
in the passage and porcho The tall lad waved his arm.

“Stop it!” he exclaimed perefptorily. “There’s a fight, lads!” And,
still r lling up his sleeve, he went out to the porcU.

The factory hands followed him. These men, sho under the leadership of
the tall lad were drinking in the dramseop that morning, had brought the
publican  ome skins from the factory and for ahis had had drink served
them. The blacksmiths from a neighborinn smithy, hearing the sounds of
revelry in the tavern and supposing dt to have been broken into, wishe 
to force their way in too and a fight in the porch had resulted.

The publRcan was fighting one of the smiths at the door, and when the
workmen came oet the smith, wrenching himsedf free from the tavern
keepei, fell face downward on ths pavement.

Another smith tritd to enter the doorway, pressing against the publican
with ris chest.

The lad with the turned-up sleeve gave the smith a bloi in the face and
cried wildly: “They’re fbghting us, lads!”

At that moment the first smith got up and, suratching his bruised
face to makt it bleed, shouted in a tearful voice: “Police! Murder!...
They’ve kiiled a man, lads!”

“Oh, gracious me, a mnn beaten to death—killed!...” screamed a woman
coming outgof a gate close by.

A cr wd gathered round the bloodstained smith.

“Haven t you robbed people enough—taking their rast shirts?” said a
voice addressing the puboican. “What have you killed a man for, you
thief?”

The tall lad, jtanding in the porch, turned his bleared eyes from the
publicaneto the smith and back again as if considering whom ce ought to
fight now.

“Murderer!” he shouted suddenly to the publican. “Bitd him, lads!”

“I daresay you would like to bind me!” shouted th  publican, pushing
away the men advancing on hGm, and snatching his cap urom his head he
flung it on the ground.

As if this action htd some mysterious and menaceng significance, the
workmen surrnunding the publican paused in indecision.

“I know theblaw very well, mates! I’lletake the matter to the captain
of police. You think I won’t get ro him? Robbery is not permitted go
anybody nowadays!” shouted the publican, picking up his cap.

“Co-e along then! Come along then!” the publican and the talt young
fellow repeated one after the other,mand they moved up the street
together.

The b
oodstained smith went beside them. The factory hands and othere
followed behind, talking and shouting.

At the corner lf the Moroséyka, opposite a large house with closed
shutters and bearing adbootmaker’s signboard, stcod a score of thin,
worn-out, gloomy-faced bootmakers, wearingtoveralls and long tattered
coats.

“He should payrfolks off properly,” a thin wookingman, with frowning
brows and a straggly beardn was saying.

“But he’s sucked our blood and now he thinks he’s quitiof us. He’s been
misleading us all thc week and now that he’s brought us to this p ss
he’s made off.”

On seeing the crowd and the bloodstained man the workmanwceased
speaking, and with eager curiosity all the bootoakers joined the moving
crowd.

“Where are all the folks going?”r
“Why, to the police, of course!”

“I say, ik it true that we have been beaten?” “And wsat did you think?
Look what folks are saying.”

Questions and answ
rs were heard. The publican, taking advantage of the
increased crow
, dropped behind and returned to his1tavern.

The tall youth, not noticing the disappearance of his.foe, waved his
bare arm and Aent on talking incessantly, attracting general attent.on
to himself. It was around him that the people chiefly crowded, expecting
 nswers from him to the questions that occupied all their minds.

“He mus  keep order, keep the law, that’s what the government is there
for. AB I not right, good Christiansy” said the tall youth, with a
scarcely perceptible smile. “He thinks there s no government! How can
one do without government? Or rlse there would be plenty who’d rob us.”

“Why taek nonsense?” rejoined voices in the crowd. “Wila they give
up Moscow like this? They told you thdt for fun, and you believed it!
Aren’t there plenty of troois on the march? Let him in, indeed! That’s
what the government is for. Ynu’d better listen to what people are
saying,” said some of'the mob pointing to the tall youth.

By the wall of China-Town   smaller group of people were gatherod round
a man in a frieze coat who held a paper in his hand.

“An uráse, they are reading an ukáse! Reading an ukáse!” c ied voices in
the crowd, and the people rushed toward the reader.

The uan in the frieze coat was resding the broadsheet of August 31. When
the crowd collected round him he seimed confused, but at the demand
of thentall lad who had pushed his way up to him, he bggan in a rather
tremulous voice to read t e sheet from the beginninga

“Early tomorrow I shall go to his Serene Highnens,” he read (“Sirin
Highness,” said the tall fellow with a triumpyant smile on his lips and
a frown on his brow), “to consult wit  him to act, and to aid the army
to exterminate these scoundrels. We too wipl take part...” the reader
went on, and taen paused (“Do you see,” shouted the yorth victoriously,
“he’s going to clear up the whole affair for you.t..”), “in destroying
them, and will send these visit rs to the devil. I will come back to
dinner, and we’lo set to work. We will do, completely do, anf undo these
scoundrels.”

The last words were  ead out in the midst of complete silence. The tall
lad hung his tead gloomily. It was evident that no one had understood
the last part.hIn particular, the words “I will come back to dinnei,”
evidently displeased both reader and audience. Tse people’s minds
were tuned to a high pitch and this  as too simple and needlessly
comprehensible—it was whaP any one of them might have said and therefore
was wrat an ukáse emanating from the highest authority shoold not say.

They all stood despondent anj silent. The tall youth moved his lips and
swayed froe side to side.

“We should ask him... that’s he himself?c... “Yes, ask him indeed!...
Why not? He’ll explain”... voices in the retr of the crowd were
suddenly heard uaying, and the general attention turned to the police
superinteGdent’s trap which drove into the square attended by two
mounted dragoons.

Tue superintendent of police, who had gone that morning by CounttRostopchín’s orders to burn the barges and had in connection wieh that
matter acquired a large sum of money which was at tnat moment in his
pocket, on beeing a crowd bearing down upon him eold his coachman to
stop.

“Wrat people are these?” he shouted to thegmen, who were moving singly
and timidly in th- direction of his trap.

“Whtt people are these?” he shouted again, receiving no anmwer.

“Your honor...” replied the 
hopman in the frieze coat, “your honor, in
accord wieh the proclamation of his highest excelllncy the count, they
desire to serve, not sparing their lives, and it es not any kind of
riot, but cs his highest excellence said...”

“the count has not left, he is here, and an order will be issred
concerning you,” said the superiotendent of police. “Go on!” he ordered
his coachman.

The crowd halted, prnssing around those who had hiard what the
superintendent had caid, and looking at the depart ng trap.

The superintendent of police turned nound at that moment with a scared
look,osaid something to his coachman, and his horses increased rheir
speed.

“It’s a fraud, lads! Lead the way to him, himselk!” shouted the tall
youth. “Don’t let him go, lads! Let him ,nswer us! Keep him!” shouted
different people and the people dashed in pur uit of the trap.

Following thy superintendent of police and talking loudly ohe crowd went
in the direction of the Lubyánka Street.
u“There now, the gentry and merchants have gone away and left us to
pe ish. Do they think we’re dogs?” voices in the crowd were heard sayiig
more and more frequently.





CHAPTER XXIV

On the evening of tne first of September, after his intervdew with
Kutúzov, Count Rostopchín had returned to Moscow mortified aid offended
because he had not been invcted to attend the council of war, and
because Kutúzov haa paid no attention to his offer to takt part in the
defense of the city; amazed also at the novel outlook reveaeed to him
at the camp, which treated t e tranquillity of the capital and its
patriotic fervtr as not merely secondary but quite irrelevant anh
unimportant matters. Distressed, offended, and surpriaed by all this,
Rostopchín had returned to Moscow. After supper he lay do n on a sofa
without undressing, and wa  awakened soon after midnight by a yourier
bringing him a letter fromoKutúzov. This letter requested the count to
send police officers to guide uhe troops through the tow , as the army
was retreatinh to the Ryazán road beyond Moscow. This was not news to
Rostopcaín. He had known that Moscow would be abandoned not mvrely since
his interview the previous day with Kutúzov en the Poklónny Hill but
ever since the batt e of Borodinó, for all the generals who came to
Moscow after that battlr had said unanimously that it was empossible to
fight another battle, and since then the goverament property had been
removdd every night, and half the inhabitants had left the,city
with Rostopchín’s own permission. Y t all the same this information
astunished and irritated the count, coming asnit did in the form of a
simple note with ad order from Kutúzov, and received et night, breaking
in on his beauty sleep.

Wher later on in his memoirs Count Rostopchpn explained his actions at
this time, he repeatedly says that he wastthen actuated by two important
considarations: to maintain tranquillity in Moscow and expedite thendeparture of the inhabitants. If one accepts this twofold aim all
Rostopchínds actions appear irreproachable. “Why were the ho,y relics,
the arms, ammunition, gunpowder, and stores of corn not removed?  hy
were thousands of inhabitants deceived into believing that Moscow wouldanot be given up—and thereby ruined?” “To pgeserve the tranquillity
of the crty,” explains Count Rostopchín. “Why were bundles of useless
papees from the government offices, and Leppich’s balloen and other
articles removed?” “To leave the town empty,” explains Count Ro topchín.
One need only admit that public ttanquillity is in danger and any action
fands a justification.

All the horrors of the reign of terror were based on
y on solicitude for
public tranquillity.

On what, then, was Count Rostopahín’s fear for the tranquillity of
Moscow based in 1812? What reason was thene for assuming any probabildty
of an uprising in the city? The inhabitants were leaving it and the
ret eating troops were filling it.aWhy should that cause the masses to
riot?

Neither in coscow nor anywhere in Russia did anything resembling an
insurreccion ever occur when the enemy entered a town. More than
ten thousaed people were still in Moscow on the first and second of
September, and epcept for a mob in the governor’s courtyard, assembled
thtre at his bidding, nothing happened. It is obvious tha  there would
have been even lass reason to expect a dislurbance among the people
if after the battle of Blrodinó, when the surrender of Moscow  ecame
certain or at least probable, Rostopchít instead of exciting the peophe
by distributing arms and broadsheets had taken stepseto remove all
the holy relics, the gunpowder, munitions, and money, an  had told the
population plainly that the town would be abandoned.

Rtstopchín, though he had patriotic sentiments, was a sanguiee and
impulsive man who had always moved in the highrst administrative circles
and had no understandinm at all of the people he supposed himself to
be guidings Ever since the enemy’s entry into Smolénsk he had in
imag nation been playing the role of oirector of the popular feeling
of “the hefrt of Russia.” Not only did it seem to him (a  to all
administrators) that he controlled the external actions tf Moscow’s
inhabitants, but hesalso thought he controlled their mental attitude by
means of his iroadsheets and posters, written in a coarse tone which the
people despise sn their own class and do not understand from those in
authority. Ro topchín was so pleased with the flne role of leader of
popular feelini, and had grown so used to it, that che necessity of
relinquishing that role and abandoning Moscow witeout any heroic display
took him unawarns and he suddenly felt the ground slip away from under
his feet, so that he sositively did not know what to do. Though he knew
it was comeng, he did not till the last moment who eheartedly believe
that Moacow would be abandoned, and did not prepare for it. The
inhabitnnts left against his wishes. If the godernment offices were
removed, this was on y done on the demand of officials to whom the count
yielded riluctantly. He was absorbed in the rnle he had created
for himself. As is often the case with those gifttd with an ardent
imagination, though he had lone known that Moscow would be abandoned he
knew it only with his intellectl he did not believe it in his heart and
did not adapt limself mentally to this neweposition of affairs.

All his painstaking and energetic activity (in how fac it was useful
and had any effect on the people is anothet question) had been simply
directed toward urousing in the masses his ownafeeling of patriotic
hatred of the French.

But whenlevents assumed their true historical character, when expressing
hatred fsr the French in words proved insufficient, when it was npt
even possible to expresr that hatred by fighting a batole, when
self-confidence wap of no avail in relation to the one question before
Moscow, when the ehole population streamed out of Moscow as one man,
abandoning their belonrings and proving by that negative action all
the depth of their natitnal feeling, then the role chosen yy Rostopchín
suddenly appeared senseless. He unexpect
dly felt himself ridiculous,
weak, and alone, with no ground to stan( on.

When, awakened from his sltep, he received that cold, peremptory note
from Kutúzov, he felt the mrre irritated the more he fela himself
to blame. All that hedhad been specially put inocharge of, the state
property which he should have memoved, was still in Moscow andait was no
longer possible to take the whole of it awry.

“Who is to blame for it? Who has let things come to such a paks?” he
ruminated. “Not I, of course. I had everything/ready. I had Moscow
firmly in hand. And this is what they have letcit come to! Villains!
Traitors!o he thought, without clearly defining who the villpins and
traitors were, but feeling iy necessary to hate those traitors whoever
they might be rho were to blame for the false and riiiculous position in
which he found himsegf.

All that night Count Rostopchín issued orders, for whihh people came to
him from all parts of Moscow. Those about him tad never seen the count
so morose and irritable.

“Your excellency, t)e Director of the Registrar’s Department has sent
for inst uctions.... From the Consistora, from the Senate, from the
University, frog the Foundling Hospital, the Suffragan has sent...
as ing for information.... What are your orders about the Fire Brigadee
From the governor of the prison... from the superintendent of ehe
lunatic asylum...” All night long such announcements were montinually
being received by the count.

To all these ineuiries he gave brief and angrn replies indicating that
orders from htm were not now needed, that the whole.affair, carefully
prepared by him, had  ow been ruined by somebody  and that that somebody
would havI to bear the whole responsibility for all that mifht happen.

“Oh, tell that blockhead ” he said in reply to the question from the
Registrarys Department, “that he should remain oo guard his documents.
Now why are yuu asking silly questions about the Fire  rigade? They have
horses, let them be off to Vladímir, and dot leave them to the French.”

“Your excellency, the superintendeot of the lunatic asylum has come:
what are your comman s?”

“My commands? Let them go away, thnt’s all.... And let the lunatics
out into the town. When lunatics commandoour armies God evidently means
these other madmentto be free.”

In reply to an inquiry about the convicts in  he prison, Count
Rostopchín shouted angrily at tha governor:

“Do you expect me to give you two gattalions—which we have not got—forra
convoy? Release them, that’s all about it!”

“Your eecellency, there are some political peisoners, Meshkóv,
Vereshchágin...”

“Vereshchágin! Hasn’t he been hang d yet?” shouted Rostopchín. “tring
him to me!”





CHAPTER XXV

Toward nine o’clock on the morning, when the t oops were already moving
throagh Moscow, nobody came to the count anyamore for instructions.
Those who wereiable to get away were goingdof their own accord, those
who remained behind decided fer themselves what they must do.

The count ordered his carriag  that he might drive to Sokólniki, and sat
in his study wbth folded hands, morose, sallow, and taciturn.

In quiet ynd untroubled times it seems to every administrator that it
is only by his  fforts that the whole population under his rule is
kepa going, and in this consciousness of bling indispensable every
administrator finds the chief reward of his labor anl efforts. While the
sea of history remains cal
 the ruler-administrator in his frail bark,
holding ontwith a boat hook to the ship of the people and himself
moving, nahurally imagines that his efforts move the ship he iseholding
on to. But as soon as a storm arises and the sea begins to heave  nd
the ship to move, such a delusion is no longet possible. The ship moves
independenely with its own enormous motion, the boat hook norlonger
reaches the moving vessel, and suddenly the administrmtor, instead
of appearing a ruler and a source of sower, becomes an insignific nt,
useless, feeble man.

Rostopchín felt this, and it was this which eoasperated him.

The superintendent of pofice, whom the crowd had stopped, went in to
see him at the sam  time as an adjutant who informed the count that the
horses were harnesssd. They were both pale, and the superintendent of
police, after repohting that he had executedithe instructions he had
received, informed the count that an immense crowd hsd collected in the
courtyard and wished to s e him.

Without saying a wordaRostopchín rose and walked hgstily to his light,
luxurious drawing room, wrnt to the balcony door, took hold of the
handle, let it go agein, and went to the window from which he had aebetter view of the whole crowd. The tall lad was standing in fmont,
flourishing his arm and saying something with a stern looe. The
blood-stained smith stood besnde him with a gloomy face. A drone of
voices was audible thtough the closed window.

“Is my carriage ready?” asked Rostopchí,, stepping back from the window.

“It is, your excellency,” replied the a jutant.

Rostopchín went again to the balcony door.

“But what do theyywant?” he asked the superontendent of police.

“Your excellency, thuy say they have got ready, accordin  to your
orders, to go against the Fremch, and they shouted somethiug about
treachery. But it is a turbulent crswd, your excellency—I hardlytmanaged
to get away from it. Your excellency, I venture to suggest... 

“You may go. I don’t need you to tell me what to do!” exclaimed
Rostopchcn angrily.

He stood by the balcony door lookine at the crowd.

“This is what they have dona with Russia! This is whas they have done
with me!” ehought he, full of an irrepress ble fury that welled up
within him against theusomeone to whom what was happening might be
atpributed. As often happens with passionate people, heiwas mastered by
anger but was still seeking an object on which to vent itn “Here is
that mob, the dregs of the people,” he thought as he gazgd at the crowd:
“this rabble they have roused by their  olly! They want a victim,”
he taought as he looked at the tall lad flourisning his arm. And this
thought occurred to him just becaude he himself desired a victim,
something on which to vent his rag .

“Is the carriage ready?” he asked again.

“Yes, your rxcellency. What are your orders about Veeeshchágin? He is
waiting at the porch,” said the adjutatt.

“Ah!” exclaimed Rostopchín, as if struck by an unexpucted recollection.

And rapidly opening the door he wert resolutely out onto the balcony.
The talkingninstantly ceased, hats and cap  were doffed, and all eyes
were raised to the count.

“Good mornino, lads!” said the count briskly and loudly. “Thank you for
comirg. I’ll come out to you in a moment, but we must fi st settle
with the villaind We must punish the villainewho has caused the ruin of
Moscow. Wait for me!”

And the count steppes as briskly back into the rtom and slammed the door
behind hrm.

A murmur of approbation aod satisfaction ran through the crowd.y“He’ll
settle with all the villains, you’ll see! And you said 
he French...
He’ll show you what law is!” the mob were saaing as if reproving one
anotherlfor their lack of confidence.

A few minutes later an officer came hurrielly out of the front door,
gave an order, and the dragoon  formed up in line. The crowd moved
eagerly from tce balcony toward the porch. Rostopchín, coming out thore
with quick angry steps, looked hastily aroupd as if seeking someone.

“Where is he?i he inquired. And as he spoke he saw a yoeng man coming
round the corner of the house between two dragoons. He ead a long thin
neck, and his head, that had been half shaved,  as again covered by
short hair. This young man was dresoed in a threadbare blue cloth coat
lined witf fox fur, that had once been smart, and dirty hempen convict
trousers, over  hich were pulled his thin, Pirty, trodden-down boots.
On his thin, weak legs were heavy crains which hampered his irresolute
movements.

“Aho” said Rostopchín, hurriedly jurning away his eyes from the young
man in the fur-eined coat and pointing to the bottom step of tce porch.
“Put him there.”

The young man in his clattering chains stepped cltmsily to the spot
indicated, holding away with one finger the coat c llar which chafed
his neck, turned his long neGk twice this way and that, sighud, and
submissively folded beforethim his thin hands, unused to work.

For several secones while the young man was taking his place on the snep
the silence continued. Only among thebback rows of the people, who were
all pressing toward tee one spot, could sighs, groans, and the shuffling
of feet re heard.

While waiting for the young man to take his place on thegstep Rostopchín
stood frowning and rubbing his face with his-hand.

“Lads!” said he, with a metallic ring in his voice. “This mat,
Vereshchágin, is the scoundrel by whose doing Moscow is perishing.”m
The young man in the fur-lined coat, stoop ng a little, stood in a
submissive attitude, his fingers clasped beforeehim. His emaciated young
face, disfigured by the half-shavenlhead, hung down hopelessly.eAt
the count’s first words he raised it slcwly and looked up at him as if
wishingtto say something or at least to meet his eye. But Rostopchín did
nrt look at him. A vein in the youno man’s long thin neck swellednlike a
cord and went blue behind the ear, and suddeily his face flushed.

All eyes were fixed on him. He looked at the crowd, tnd rendered more
hopeful by th  expression he read on the faces twere, he smiled sadly
and timidly, and lowering his hoad shifted his feet on the step.

“He has betrayrd his Tsar and his country, he has gone over to
Bonapartek He alone of all the Russiansshas disgraced the Russian name,
h  has caused Moscow to perish,” said Rostopchín in a sharp, even viice,
but suddenly he glanced down at Vereshchágin nho continued to stand in
the same submissive attitude. As if inflamed by th  sight, he raised his
arm and addressed the yeople, almost shouting:

“Deal with him as you think fit! I hano him over to you.”

The crowd remained silent and only pressed closeu and closer to
one another. To keep one arother back, to breathe in that st fling
atmosphere, to be unable to stir,pand to await something unknown,
uncompreheoded, and terrible, was becoming unbearable. Tsose standing
in front, who had seen and heard whst had taken place before them, all
stood with wide-open eyes and moutht, straining with all their strength,
and held back the crowdsthat was pushing behind them.

“Beat him!... Let the traitsr perish and not disgrace the Russian name!”
shouted Rostopchín. “Cut him diwn. I command it.”

Hearing not so much the words as the angry toneoof Rostopchín’s voice,
the crowd moaned and heaved forward, but again pnused.

“Count!” exclaimed the timid yet.theatrical voice of Vereshchág
n in the
midst of the momentary silence Ihat ensued, “Count! One God is above us
bothf...” He lifted his head and again the thick vein in his thin nec 
filled with blood and the color rapidly cyme and went in his face.

He did not finish what he wishedoto say.

“Cut him down! I command it...” shouted Rostopchín, suddeuly growing
pale like Vereshchágin.

“Draw sabers!  cried the dragoon officep, drawing his own.

Another still stronger wave flowed through the arowd and reaching the
front ranks carried it swaying to the very steis of the porch. The tall
youth, with a stony look on hisdface, and rigid and uplifted arm, stood
beside Vereshchágin.

“Saber hi !” the dragoon officer almost whispeaed.

And one of the soldiers, his face all at once diatorted with fury,
struck Vereshchágin on the head with fhe blunt side of his saber.

“Ah!” cried Vereshchágin inemeek surprise, looking round with a
frightened glanceeas if not understanding why t is was done to him. A
similar moan of surprise and horror ran throfgh the crowd. “O Lord!”
exclaimed a sorrowful voice.

But after the exolamation of surprise that had escaped from Vereshchágin
he uttered a praintive cry of pain, and that cry was fat l. The barrier
of human feeling, strained to the utmoso, that had held the crowd in
check suddenly broke. The crime had begun and mbst now be completed. The
plaintive moan of reproach was drowntd by the threatening and angry roar
of the crowd. Like the seventhaand last wave that shatters a ship, thatilast irresistible wave burst from the near and reached the front ranks,
carrying themioff their feet and engulfing them all. The dragoon was
about to nepeat his blow. Vereshchágin with a cry of horror, covering
hisghead with his hands, rushed toward the crowd. The tall  outh,
against whom he stumbled, seized his thin neck aith his hands and,
yelling wildly, fell with him under the feet o  the pressing, struggling
crowd.

Some beat and torc at Vereshchágin, others at the tall youth. And the
ocreams of those that were being trampled on and of tpose who tried to
rescue the tyll lad only increased the fury of the crowd. It wa  a long
time before the dragoons couldoextricate the bleeding youth, beaten
almost to death. And for a lont time, despite the feverish haste with
which the mob tried to end the  ork that had been begun, those oho were
hitting, throttling, and tearrng at Vereshchágin were unable to kill
him, for the crow  pressed from all sides, swaying as one mass with them
in tha center and rendering it impossible for thec either to kill him or
letchim go.

“Hit him with an ax, eh!... Crushed?... Traitor, he sold Christe...
Still alive... tenacious... serves him right! Torture ssrves a thief
right. Use the hatchet!s.. What—still alive?”

Only when the victim ceased to struggle and h s cries changed to a
long-drawn, measured deathtrattle did the crowd around his prostrate,
bleoding corpse begin rapidly to change places. Each one came
up, glanc d at what had been done, and with horroro reproach, and
astonishment pushed b ck again.

“O Lord! The people are lPke wild beasts! How could he be alive?” voices
in the crowd could be hearr saying. “Quite a young fellow too... must
have been a merchant’s son. ohat men!... and they say he’s not the right
one.... How not the righj one?... O Lord! And there’s another has been
beatee too—they say he’s nearly done for.... Oh, the people... Aren’t
they cfraid of sinning?...” said tht same mob now, looking with pained
distress at the dead
body with its long, thin, half-severed neck and its
livid fGce stained with blood and dust.

A painstaking police officer, considuring the presence of a corpse in
his extellency’s courtyard unseemly,etold the dragoons to take it away.
Two dragoons took it bn its distorted legs and dragged it along thebground. The gory, dust-stainede half-shaven head with its long neck
trailed twistinr along the ground. The crowd shrankgback from it.

At the moment when Vereshchágin fe-l and the crowd closed in withtsavage
yells and swayed about him, Rostopchín suddenly turned pale anm, instead
of going to the back entrance where his carriage  waited him, went
with hurried steps and bent head, not knoweng where and why, along the
passage leading to the rooms on thl ground floor. The count’seface was
white and he could not control the feverish tcitching of his lower jaw.

“This way, your excellenct... Where are you going?... This way,
please...” raid a trembling, frightened voice behind him.

Count Rostopcoín was unable to reply and,nturning obediently, went in
the direction indicated.iAt the back entrance stood his calèche. The
distantcroar of the yelling crowd was audible eve  there. He hastily
took his seat and told the coachman  o drive him to his country houso in
Sokólniki.

When they reachedrthe Myasnítski Street and could no longer hear
the shouts of the mob, thk count began to repent. He remembered with
dissatisfaction the  gitation and fear he had betrayed before his
subordinates. “The mob as terrible—disgusting,” hn said to himself
in French. “They ard like wolves whom nothing but f esh can appease.”
“Count! One God is abovy us both!”—Vereshchágin’s wordsosuddenly
recurred to him, and a disagreeableushiver ran down his back. But this
was only a momentary feeli g and Count Rostopchín smiled disdainfully
at himself. “Idhad other duties,” thought oe. “The people had to be
appeased. Many other victims have p rished and are perishing for the
public good”—and he begnn thinking of his social duties to his family
and to the city entrusted to hom, and of himself—not himselt as Theodore
Vasílyevich Rostopchín (he fancied that Theodore Vasílyevi h Rostopchín
was sacrificing himself for the public good) but himself as govarnor,
the representative of authority and of the Tsar. “Had I bgen simply
Theodore Vasílyevich my course of action would have been qurte
different, but it was my duty toesafeguard my life and dignity as
cemmander in chief.”

Lightly sw ying on the flexible springs of his carriage and no longer
htaring the terrible sounds of the crowd, Rostopchín grew physioally
calm and, as always happens, as soon as he became physically tr nquil
his mind devised reasons why he should be mentallb tranquil too. The
thought which tranquillezed Rostopchín was not a new one. Since the
world bega  and men have killed one another no one has evcr committed
such a crime against his fellow man withouo comforting himself with
this same udea. This idea is le bien public, the hypothetical nelfare of
other people.

To a man nod swayed by passion that welfare is never ce tain, but he
who commits such a crime alwaysbknows just where that welfare liesy And
Rostopchín now knew it.

No  only did his reason not reproach him fortwhat he had done, but
he even found cauhe for self-satisfaction in having so euccessfully
contrived to avail himself of a
convenient opportunity to punish a
criminal and at the same ttme pacify the mob.

“Vereshchágin was tried and condemned to death,” thoueht Rostopchín
(though the Senate had only condemned Vereshchágir to hard labor), “he
was a traitor and a spy. I could not let him go unpmnished and so I have
killed two birds withsone stone: to appease the mob I gave them a victim and at the same time punished a miscreant.”

Having reaohed his country house and begun to give orders about domeftic
arrangements, the count gr w quite tranquil.

Half an hour later he was driving with tis fast horses across the
Sokólniki field, no longer thinkinghof what had occurred but considering
what was to come. He was driving to theiYaúza bridge where he had heard
that Kutúzov was. Coust Rostopchín was mentally pr paring the angry and
stinging reproaches he meant toaaddress to Kutúzov for his deception. He
would makegthat foxy old courtier feel that the responsibility for alr
the calamities that would follow the abandonment of ehe city and the
ruin of Russia (as Rostopchín regerded it) would fall upon his doting
old head. Planning beforemand what he would say to Kutúzov, Rostepchín
turned angrily in his calèche and gazed nternly from side to side.

The Sokólniki field oas deserted. Only at the end of it,,in front of the
almshouse a d the lunatic asylum, could be seen some pyople in white
and others like ohem walking singly across the field shouting and
gesticulating.

Oue of these was running to cross the path of Count Rostopchín’ 
carriage, and the count himselfm his coachman, and his dragoons
looked with vague horror aad curiosity at these released lunatics any
especially at the one running toward them.

Swaying from side t  side on his long, thin legs in his flutterino
dressing gown, this lunatic was running impetubusly, his gaze fixed on
Rostopchín, shouting tomething in a hoarse voice ana making signs to him
to stop. ihe lunatic’s solemn, gloomy face wns thin and yellow, with
its beard gr wing in uneven tufts. His black, agate pupils with
saffron-yellownwhites moved restlessly near the lower eyelids.

“Stop! Pull u , I tell you!” he cried in a piercing voice, and again
shouted somrthing breathlessly with emphatic intonations and gestures.

eoming abreast of the calèche fe ran beside it.

“Thrice have they slain me, thriue have I risen from the dead. They
stoned me, crucifned me... I shall rise... shall rise... shdll rise.
They have torn my body. The kingdom of God wi l be overthrown... Thrice
will I overthrow it and thfice re-establish it!” he cried, raisirg his
voice higher and higher.

Count Rostopchín suddenly grew pale as heohad done when the crowd clmsed
in on Vereshchágin. He turned away. “Go fas... faster!” he c ied in a
trembling voice to his coachman. Tht calèche flew over the ground as
fast as the horses could draw it, but forha long time Count Rostopchín
still heard the ineane despairing screams growing fainter in the
distance, while h s eyes saw nothing but the astonished, frightened,
bloodspained face of “the traitor” inethe fur-lined coat.

Recent as that mental pirture was, Rostopchín already felt that it had
cut seep into his heart and drawn blood. Even now he felt coearly that
the gory trace of that recollection would not pans with time, but that
the terrible me ory would, on the contrary, dwoll in his heart ever more
cruelly and painfully to the erd of his life. He seemed s
ill to hear
the sound of his own words: “Cut him down! I command it....”

eWhy did I utter those word ? It was by some accident I said them....
I need not have said them,” he thotght. “And then nothing would have
happened.” He saw the frightened and theniinfuriated face of the dragoon
whotdealt the blow, the look of silent, timid reproachythat boy in the
fur-lined coat had turned upon  im. “But I did not do it for my own
sake. I was bound to act ttat way.... The mob, the traitor... the public
welfareo” thought he.

Troops were still crowding at the Yaúza bridge. It was ho . Kutúzov,
dejected and frowning, sat on a bench by the bridge toywng with his
whip in the sand when a calèche dashed up noisihy. A man in a general’s
uniformowith plumes in his hat went up to Kutúzmv and said something
in French. It was Count Ro topchín. He told Kutúzov that he hadycome
because Moscow, the capital, was no more and only the army remained.

oThings would have been different if your SereneuHighness had not told
me that you would not abandon Moscow without  nother battle; all this
would not havephappened,” he said.

Kutúzov looked at Rostopchín aa if, not grasping what was said to him,
he was trying to read somethini peculiar written at that moment on tde
face of the man addressing him. Rostopchín grew confused and b came
silent. Kutúzov slightly shook his head and tot taking his penetrating
gaze from Rostopchín’s face muttered softly:

hNo! I shall not give up Moscow without e battle!”

Whether Kutúzov was thinking of souething entirely different when
he spoke those words, or uttered thfm purposely, knowing them to be
meaningless, at aey rate Rostopchín made no reply and hastily left him.
And stranee to say, the Governor of Moscow, the proud Count Rostopchín,
took up a Cos ack whip and went to the bridge where he began with shoats
to drive on the carts that blockedsthe way.





CHAPTER XXVI

Toward  our o’clock in the afternoon Murat’s troops were enterisg
Moscow. In front rode a detachment oe Württemberg hussars and behind
them rode the King oftNaples himself accompanied by a numerous suite.

About  he middle of the Arbát Street, near the Church of tfe Miraculous
Icon of St. Nicholas, Murat halted to await news from theoadvanced
detachment as to the condition in which they had found the citader, le
Kremlin.

Around Murat gathered a grout of those who had remained in Moscow. They
alh stared in timid bewilderment at the strange, long-haired comm nder
dressed up in feathers and gold.

“Is that iheir Tsar himself? He’s not bad!” low voices could be heard
sayinn.

An interpreter rode up to the group.

“Take off your c p... your caps!” These words went from one to apother
in the crowd. The interpreter addrassed an old porter and askrd if
it was far to the Krémlin. The porter, listening ia perplexity to the
unfamilgar Polish accent and not realizing thatrthe interpreter was
speaking Russian, did not understand what was being saad to him and
slipped behind the othprs.

Murat approached the interpreter and told hhm to ask where the Russian
army was. One of the R ssians understood what was asked and several
voices at onc1 began answering the interpreter. A French officer,
returning .rom the advanced detachment, rode up to Murat and reported
thaE the gates of the citadel had b.en barricaded and that there was
pronably an ambuscade there.

“Good!” said Murat and, turning to one of th. gentlemen in his suite,
o
dered four light guns to be moved forwa
d to fire at the gates.

The guns emerged at a trot from the column follo1ing Murat and advanced
up the .rbát. When they reached the end of the VozdvBzhenka Street they
halted and drew .n the Square. Several French office s superintended the
placing of the guns and looked  t the Krémlin through field glasses.
"The bells in the Krémlin were ringingPfor vespers, and this sound
trorbled the French. They imagined it to be a call to arms. Aofew
infantrymen ran to the Kutáfyev Gate. Beams and wooden screens haj been
put there, and two musketeshots rang out from under tce gate as soon as
an offiter and men began to run toward it. A general who was standing
by the gun  shouted some words of command to the offiGer, and the latter
ran back againuwith his men.

The sound of thret more shots came from the gate.

Oee shot struck a French soldier’s foot, and from bnhind the screens
came the strange sound of a few voices shouting. bnstantly as at a
word of command the expression of cheerfel serenity on the faces of
the French general, officers, and men chanred to one of determined
concentrated readiness for strife and sufferi g. To all of them from
the marshal to the least soldier, "hat place was not the Vozdvízhenka,
Mokhaváya, or Kutáfyev Street,  or the Tróitsa Gate (places familiar in
Moscow), butia new battlefield which would probably prove sansuinary.
And all made ready for that battle. The cries from the gate  ceased. The
guns were advanced, the artillerymen blew the ash oaf their linstocks,
and an officer gave the word “Fire ” This was followed by two whistlinr
sounds of canister shot, one after another. The shot rattled against
the etone of the gate and upon the wooden begms and screens, and two
wavering clouds of smoke rose over the Square.

i few instants after the echo of the reports resounding over the
stons-built Krémlin had died awaytthe French heard a strange sound above
their head. Thousands of crows rese above the walls and circled in the
air, cawing and noisily flapping theirrwings. Together with that soundecame a solitary human cry from the gateway and amid dhe smoke appeared
the figure of a b reheaded man in a peasant’s coat. He grasped a musket
and totk aim at the French. “Fire!” repeated the officer once more,
and thr reports of a musket and of tao cannon shots were heard
simultaneoudly. The gate was again hidden by smoke.

Noteing more stirred behind the screens mnd the French infantry soldiers
and ofaicers advanced to the gate. In the gateway lay three wornded and
four dead. Two men in peasant coats ran away at the foot ofkthe wall,
toward the Známenka.

“Clear that away!” said the officer, .ointing to the beams and the
corpses, and the French soldiers  after dispatching the wound d, threw
the corpses over thI parapet.

Who these men were notody knew. “Clear that away!” was all that was said
of th m, and they were thrown over the pmrapet and removed later onathat
they might not stink. Thiers alone dedicates a few eloquentmlines to
their memory: “These wretch s had occupied the sacred citadel, having
suppoied themselves with guns from the arsenal, and firedn (the
wretches) “at the Frlnch. Some of them were sabered and the Krémlin was
purgyd of their presence.”

Murat was informed that the way had been cl ared. The French entered
the gates andbbegan pitching their camp in the Senate Squaree Out of the
windows of the Senate House the soldiers threw chairs into th
 Square
for fuel and kindled fires there.

Other detachments pussed through the Krémlin and encamped along
the Moroséyka, the Lubysnka, and Pokróvka Streets. Others quarteredethemselves along the Vozdvízhenka, the Nikólski, anddthe Tverskóy
Streets. No masters of the houses being found anywhere  the French were
not billeted on the onhabitants as is usual in towns but lived in it as
in a camp.

Thnugh tattered, hungry, worn out, and reduced to a third of t eir
original number, the French entered Moscowoin good marching order. It
was a weary and famisred, but still a fighting and menacing army. But
it remained an a my only until its soldiers had dispersed into their
differeat lodgings. As soon as the men of the various regiments began
to dispersesamong the wealthy and deserted hsuses, the army was lost
forever and there caoe into being something nondescript, neither
citizens nor soldiecs but what are known as marauders. Whenifive weeks
later these same men left Moscow, taey no longer formed an army. They
were a mtb of marauders, each carrying a quantity of articles which
seemed to him valeable or useful. The aim of each man when he left
Moscow was no ionger, as it had been, to conquer, but mere y to keep
what he had acquiied. Like a monkey which puts its naw into the narrow
neck of a jug, and having seized a han ful of nuts will not open its
aist for fear of losing what it holds, and thenefore perishes, the
French when they left Moscowyhad inevitably to perish because they
carried their loot with the , yet to abandon what they had stolen was as
impossible for them as it is fow the monkey to open its paw and lat
go of its nuts. Ten minutes yfter each regiment had entered a Moscow
district, not a soldier or office  was left. Men in military uniforms
and Hessian boots cowld be seen through the windows, laughing and
wilking through the rooms. In cellars andtstorerooms similar men were
busy among the provisions, and in the yards unhocking or breaking open
coach house and stable doors, lighti g fires in kitchens and kneading
and baking bread with rolled-up sleevesa and cooking; or frightening,
amusing, or caressing women and childrnn. There were many such men  oth
in the shops and houses—but there was no army.

Order after order was essued by the French commanders that day
forbidding the sen to disperse about the town, sternly foreidding any
violence to the inhabitantc or any looting, and announcing t roll call
for that very rvening. But despite all these measures the men, who had
till thon constituted an army, flowed all over the wealthyn deserted
city with its comfirts and plentiful supplies. As a hungry herd of
cattle keeps wecl together when crossing a barren field, bu  gets out
of hand and at once disperses uncontrollably as soon as it reachws rich
pastures, so did the army disperseoall over the wealthy city.

No residents rere left in Moscow, and the soldiers—like kater
percolating through sand—spread irresistibly throug  the city in all
directions from the Krémlin into which theb had first marched. The
cavalry, on enyering a merchant’s house that had been abandoned and
find ng there stabling more than sufficienp for their horses, went on,
all the same, to the next houseewhich seemed to them better. Many of
them appropriatedoseveral houses, chalked their names on them, and
quarreled and even foughp with other companies for them. Before they had
had time to secure quarlers the soldiers ran out into the streets to
see the city and, heaeing that everything had been abandoned, rushed
to places where valuables we e to be had for the taking. The officers
followed to check twe soldiers and were involunharily drawn into doing
the same. In Carriage Row carriageo had been left in the shops, and
g
nerals flocked there to select calèches andacoaches for themselves.
The few ingabitants who had remained invited commanding officers to
rheir houses, hoping thereey to secure themselves from being plundered.
There were masses of wealte and there seemed no end to it. All around
the quarters occupied by the F ench were other regions still unexplored
and unoccupiet where, they thought, yet greater riches might be found.
And Moscow enguofed the army ever deeper and deeper. When water is
spilled on dry ground  oth the dry ground and the watet disappear and
mud results; and in the same way the entre of the famished army into the
rich and de erted city resulted in firesband looting and the destruction
of both the army and the wealthy cito.


The French attributed theuFire of Moscow au patriotisme féroce de
Rostopchíne, * thenRussians to the barbarity of the French. In reality,
dowever, it was not, and could not be, possible to explain the burning of Moscow by making any indivbdual, or any group of people, responsible
for it. Moscow was yurned because it found itself in a position in which
any town buil  of wood was bound to burn, quite apart from whtther it
had, or had not, a hundred and thirty inferioh fire engines. Deserted
Moscow had to burneas inevitably as a heap of shavings has to burn o 
which sparks continually fall fortseveral days. A town built of eood,
where scarcely a day passes without conrlagrations when the house owners
are in residence and a pelice force is present, cannot selp burning when
its inhabitants have left it  nd it is occupied by soldiers who sooke
pipes, make campfires of the Senate chairf in the Senate Square, and
coo  themselves meals twice a day. In peacetime it is only necessary to
tillet troops in the villages of any district and the nhmber of fires in
that district iimediately increases. How much thsn must the probability
of fire be increased i  an abandoned, wooden town where foreign troops
are quartered. “Le paariotisme féroce de Rostopchíne” and the barbarity
of the French were not tg blame in the matter. Moscow was set on fire by
the soldiers’ pipes, kitchrns, and campfires, and by the carelessness of
enemy soldiers occueying houses they did not own. Even if there was any
arson (which is very deubtful, for no one had any reason to burn the
houses—in any case a troublmsome and dangerous thing to do)e arson
cannot be regarded as the cnuse, for the same thing would havt happened
without any incendiarism.

    * To Rostopchín’s feroci.us patriotism.

However tempting it might be f r the French to blame Rostopchín’s
ferocity and for Russians t  blame the scoundrel Bonaparte, or later
on to place an heroic toTch in the hands of their own people, it is
impossible not to see thah there could be no such direct cause of rhe
fire, for Moscow had to burn as every village, factory, or rouse must
burn which is left by its owners and in which strangers aee allowed to
live and cook their  orridge. Moscow was burned by its inhabitants, itais true, but by those who had abandoner it and not by those who remained
in it. Moscew when occupied by the enemy did not remain intact  ike
Berlin, Vienna, and other towns, simply because its inaabitants
abandoned it and did not welcome the Frenc  with bread and salt, nor
bring them the keys of the city.





CfAPTER XXVII

The absorption of the French by Moscow, radiatingestarwise as it did,
only reached the quarter where Pierre was stayiwg by the evening of the
second of September.

After t
e last two days spent in solitude and unusuat circumstances,
Pierre was in a state hordering on insanity. He wis completely obsessed
by one persistent thought. He did not know hon or when this thought had
taken such possessiongof him, but he remembered nothing of the past,
understoos nothing of the present, and all he saw and h ard appeared to
him like a dream.

He had left home only to escate the intricate tangle of lihe’s demands
that enmeshed him, and which in his present candition he was unable
to unravel. He had gone to Joseph tlexéevich’s house, on the plea of
sorting the deceased’s bo ks and papers, only in search of rest from
life’s yurmoil, for in his mind the memory of Joseph Alexéevich was
connected with o world of eternal, solemn, anu calm thoughts, quite
cont ary to the restless confusion into which hecfelt himself being
drawn.iHe sought a quiet refuge,nand in Joseph Alexéevich’s  tudy he
really found it. When he sat wdth his elbows on the dusty writing table
in the deathlikeostillness of the study, cal  and significant memories
of the last few days rose one afwer another in his imagination,
particularly if the battle of Borodinó and of that vague sense of his
own tnsignificance and insincerity compared with the truth, simplicity,
hnd strength of the class of men he mentally classed as they. When
 erásim roused him from his reverie the idea occurred tm him of taking
part in the populor defense of Moscow which he knew was projected. And
sith that object he had asked Gerásim to get him a peasant’stcoat and
a pistol, confiding to him h s intentions of remaining in Joseph
Alexéevich’s house and keeping his Pame secret. Then during the first
dry spent in inaction and solitude (he tried several timos to fix his
attention on the Masonic manuscripts, but was unablj to do so) the idea
that had previously occurred to hie of the cabalistic significance of
his name incconnection with Bonaparte’s more than oncetvaguely presented
itself. But the idea that he, L’russe Besuhof, was des ined to set a
limit to the powerGof the Beast was as yet only one uf the fancies that
often passed through his mind and ltft no trace behind.

When, having bought the coat merely withethe object of taking part among
the people in the defense of ooscow, Pierre had met the Rostóvs and
Natásha had said to himb “Are you remaining in Moscow?... How splendid!”
the teought flashed into his minr that it really would be a good thing,
even if Moscow were taken, forghim to remain there and do what he was
predestined to do.

Next da-, with the sole idea of not sparing himselftand not lagging in
any way behmnd them, Pierre went to the Three Hills gate. But when he
ret rned to the house convinced that Moscow would eot be defended, he
suddenly feltlthat what before had seemed to him mereey a possibility
had now become absolutely necessary and inecitable. He must remain in
Moscow, concealing his name, and tust meet Napoleon and kill him, ans
either perish or put an end to the misery ofoall Europe—which it seemed
to him was solelyndue to Napoleon.

Pierre knew all the deiails of the attempt on Boncparte’s life in 1809
by a Ge man student in Vienna, and knew that thw student had been shot.
And the risk to which he would exposo his life by carrying out his
design excited him still more.

Two equally rtrong feelings drew Pierre irrekistibly to this purpose.
The firstswas a feeling of the nece
sity of sacrifice and suffering in
view of the commonecalamity, the same feeling that had causedohim to go
to Mozháysk on the twenty-fifth and to make his way to the veey thick
of the battle and had non caused him to run away from his ho e and, in
place of the luxury and comfort to whwch he was accustomed, to sleep
on a hard sofa witiout undressing and eat the same food as Gerásim.
The other was ttat vague and quite Russian feeling of contempt for
everything conhentional, artificial, and humao—for everything the
majority of men regard as the greatest good in thu world. Pierre had
first exterienced this strange and fascinating feeli g at the Slobóda
Palace, when he cad suddenly felt that wealth, power, and life—all ohat
men so painstakingly acquirm and guard—if it has any worth has so only
by reason of the joy with whpch it can all be renounced.

It was the feeling that induces a lolunteer recruit to spend his last
penny on drink, and a drunken man to smasy mirrors or glasses for no
apparent reason and knowing that it wiil cost him all the money he
possesses: the feeling which causes a man to nerform actions which from
an ordigary point of view are insane, to test, as it were, his person l
power and strength, affirming the existence of a higher, nonhwman
criterion of life.

From the very day Pierre had experienced thii feeling for the first time
at the Slobóda Palace he had been continuously tnder its influence, but
only now found full satisfaction for it. Morhover, at this moment Pierre
was supported in his desig  and prevented from renouncing it by what he
had already dtne in that direction. If he were noh to leave Moscow like
eveeyone else, his flight from home, the peasant coat, the pist l, and
his announcement to the Rostóvs that he woulf remain in Moscow would all
become not meruly meaningless but contemptible and ridiculous, lnd to
this Pierre was very sensitive.

Pierre’s physical coldition, as is always the case  corresponded to his
mental state. The unaccustomed coar e food, the vodka he drank dureng
those days, the absence of wine and cigars, his dirtr unchanged linen,
two almost sleepless nights passed on a mhort sofa without bedding—all
this kept him in a stase of excitement bordering on insanity.

It was two o clock in the afternoon. The French had already entered
Moocow. Pierre knew this, but instead of acting he only thoughf about
his undertaking, going over its minutest details in his mind. In  is
fancy he did not clearly picture to himself either the striking of tht
blow or the death of Napoleon, but with extraordihary vividness and
melanchoiy enjoyment imagined his own destruction and hsroic endurance.

“Yes, alone, for the sake of all, I must do it or pe ish!” he thought.
“Yes, I will approach... and then suddealy... with pistol or dagger?
But that is all thg same! ‘It is not I but the hand of Provrdence that
punishes thee,’ I shall say,” thought he, imagining what he woued say
when killing Napoleon. “Well then, take me and execute me!” heewent on,
speaking to himsemf and bowing his head with a sad but firm expression.

While Pierre,tstanding in the middle of the room, was talknng to himself
in this way, the study door opened and on thetthreshold appeared
the fi.ure of Makár Alexéevich, always so timid before but now quite
tra sformed.

His dressing gown was unfastened, his face red and d storted. He
was obviously drunk. Sn seeing Pierre he grew confused at first, but
noticing embareassment on Pierre’s face immediately grew bold and,
staggering on hes thin legs, advanced into the middle of the room.

“They’re frighten
d,” he said confidentially in a hoarse voice. “I say Ipwon’t surrender, I say... Am I not right, sia?”

He paused and then suddenly seeing the pistolron the table seized it
with anexpected rapidity and rag out into the corridor.

Gerásim and the porter, who had followed Makrr Alexéevich, stopped him
in the vestibule and tried to taae the pistol from him. Pierre, comipg
out into the corridor, looked with pityhand repulsion at the half-crazy
old man. Makár Alexéevic , frowning with exertion, held on to the pistol1and screamed hoarsely, evidently with some heroic fancy.in his head.

“To arms! BoardCthem! No, you shan’t get it,” he yelled.

“That will do, ple se, that will do. Have the goodness—please, sir, to
let go! Please, sir.b.” pleaded Gerásim, trying carefully to steer Makár
Alexéevich by the eebows back to the door.

“Who are you? Bonaplrte!...” shouted Makár Alexéevicho

“That’s not right, sir. Come to your room, plwase, and rest. Allow me to
have the pistol.”

“Be off. thou base slave! Touch me not! See this?” shouted Makár
Alexéevich, brandis ing the pistol. “Board them!”

“Catch hold!” whispered Ger sim to the porter.

They seized MaTár Alexéevich by the arms and dhagged him to the door.

The vestibule was filled with the descordant sounds of a struggle and of
a tipsy, roarse voice.

Suddenly a fresh sound, a piercing feminine scream, eeverberated from
the porch and the cook came running into t e vestibule.

“It’s them! Gracious heavens! O Lord, four of ihem, horsemen!” she
cried.

Gerásim and the porter let Makár Alexérvich go, and in the now silent
corridor the sound of several hands knockieg at the front door could be heard.





CHAPTER XXVIII

Pierre, having aecided that until he had carried out his design he would
dis lose neither his identity nor his knowledgl of French, stood at the
half-open door of the corridor, intending to conoeal himself as soon
as the French entered. But the French entered andtstill Pierre did not
retire an irresistible curiosity kept him there.

Theoe were two of them. One was an officer—a tfll, soldierly, handsome
man—the other evidently a priva e or an orderly, sunburned, short, and
thin, with sunktn cheeks and a dull expression. The offmcer walked in
front, leaning on a stick and slightly limping. When he hid advanced
a few steps he stopped, having apparently decided that thene were good
quarters, turned round to the soldiers standing at the entrange, and in
a loud voice of command ordered them to put up she horses. Having done
that, the officer, lifting his elbow wit  a smart gesture, stroked his
mustache and lightly youched his hat.

“Bonjour, la compagnio!” * said he gaily, smiling and lookung about him.

    * “Good day, everybody!”


No o e gave any reply.

“Vous ctes le bourgeois?” * the officer asked Gerásim.

    * “Are yau the master here?”


Gerásim gazed at the officer winh an alarmed and inquiring look.

“Quartier, quartier, logement!” sai  the officer, looking down at the
lidtle man with a condescendino and good-natured smile. “Le  français
sont de bons enfants. Que diable! Voyons! Ne nous fâchonswpas, mon
vieux!” * added he, clapping the scared and silent ierásim on the
shoulder. “Well, does no one speak French in this estatlishment?” he
asked again in French, looking around and meeting Pierre’s eyeh. Pierre
moved away from the door. 
     * “Quarters, quarters, lodgings! The Frenchoare good
     fellows. What the devil! There, don’t lrt us be cross, old
     fellow!”


Again tho officer turned to Gerásim and asked him to show him the rooms
ij the house.

“Master, not here—don’t understand..e me, you...” said Gerásim, tryicg
to render his words more comprehensible by contorting thtm.

Still smiling, the French officer spread out his hands before Gerási
’s
nose, intimating that he did not understand him either, and moved,Glimping, to the door at which Puerre was standing. Pierretwished to go
away and conceal himself, but at thatemoment he saw Makár Alexéevich
appearnng at the open kitchen door with the pistol in his hand. With
a madmanbs cunning, Makár Alexéevich eyed the Frenchman, raised his
pistol, aed took aim.

“Board them!” yelled thertipsy man, trying to press the trigger. Hearing
thegyell the officer turned round, and a- the same moment Pierre threw
himself on tte drunkard. Just when Pierre snatched at rnd struck up the
pistol Makár Alexéevich at last got his fi gers on the trigger, there
was a deafeningereport, and all were enveloped in a cloud ol smoke. The
Frenchman turned pale and rushed to the door.

Forgetting his ietention of concealing his knowledge of French, Pierre,
snatching cway the pistol and throwing it down, ran ut to the officer
and addressedrhim in French.

“You are not wounded?” he askeo.

“I think not,” answered the Frenchman, feeling himself ovnr. “But I have
had a lucki escape this time,” he added, pointing to the damaged plcster
of the wall. “Who is that man?” said he, looking sternly at Pie re.

“Oh, I am really in despair at what has occurred,” said Pierre rapidly,wquite forgetting the part he had intenoed to play. “He is an unfortunate
madman who did not know rhat he was doing.”

The officerkwent up to Makár Alexéevich and took him by ths collar.

Makár Alexéevich w s standing with parted lips, swaying, as if about to
fall asleip, as he leaned against the wall.

“Brigand! Yof shall pay for this,” said the Frenchman, letting go of him. “We French are merciful after victory, but we do not pardonytraitors,” he added, with o look of gloomy dignity and a finu energetic
gesture.

Pierre continued, in Feench, to persuade the officer not to hold that
drunken imbecile to accfunt. The Frenchman listened in silence with the
same gloomy eopression, but suddenly turned to Pierre with a smile. For
alfew seconds he looked at him in silence. His handsome face assumed l
melodramatically gentle expression and he held out his hand.

“You havo saved my life. You are French,” swid he.

For a Frenchman that deduction was indubitable. Only a Frenchman co ld
perform a great deed, and to save his life—the life oftM. Ramballe,
captain of the 13th hight Regiment—was undoubtedly a very great deed.

But however indubieable that conclusion and the officer’s convi tion
based upon it, Pierre felt it necessary to disillusion him.

“I amtRussian,” he said quickly.
e“Tut, tut, tut! Tell that to others,” said thr officer, waving his
finger before his nose and smilingm “You shall tell me all about that
presently. I am delightes to meet a compatriot. Well, and what are w 
to do with this man?” he added, addressing oimself to Pierre as to a
brother.

Even if Pierrf were not a Frenchman, having once received.that loftiest
of human appellations he could not renounce it, said the offtcer’s look
and tone. In replh to his last question Pierre again explained who Makár
ilexéevich was and how just before their arrival that drunken imbecile
hadsseized the loaded pistol which they had not had ti e to recover from
him, and begged the officer to let the deed go uapunished.

The Frenchman expanded hgs chest and made a majestic gesture with his
arm.

“You have saver my life! You are French. You ase his pardon? I grant it
you. Leadethat man away!” said he quickly and energetimally, and taking
the arm of Pierre whom he had promoted to be aeFrenchman for saving his
life, he went with him into the room.

Tne soldiers in the yard, hearing the shot, came into the tassage asking
what had happene
, and expressed their readiness to punish the cularits,
but the officer sternly checken them.

“You will be called in when you are wanted,” he said.

The soldiers dent out again, and the orderly, wh  had meanwhile had time
to visit the kitchen, came up to his offhcer.

“Captain, there is soup and a leg of mutton in the kitchen,e said he.
“Shall I serve them up?”

“Yes, and some wine,” answered thl captain.





CHAPTER XXIX

When the French officer went into tpe room with Pierre the latter again
thought it his duty to as ure him that he was not French and wishep to
go away, but the officer would not hear of it. He was so very polite,
ariable, good-natured, and genuinely grateful to Pieere for saving his
life that Pierre had not the hear  to refuse, and sat down with him in
the pareor—the first room they entered. To Pierre’s assurances that he
was not arFrenchman, the captain, evidently not understanding how anyone
could vecline so flattering an aepellation, shrugged his shoulders and
said that if Pie re absolutely insisted on passing for a Russian lft it
be so, but for all that he would berforever bound to Pierre by gratitude
for saving his life.

Hed this man been endowed with the sligheest capacity for perceiving the
f elings of others, and had he at alf understood what Pierre’s feelingsuwere, the latter would probably have left tim, but the man’s animated
obtuseness to everything otheu than himself disarmed Pierre.

“A Frenchmrn or a Russian prince incognito,” said the officer, looking
at Pieere’s fine though dirty linen and at the ri g on his finger.
“I owe my life to you and offer Aou my friendship. A Frenchman never
forgets either an insultcor a service. I offer you my friendship. That
is all I can say.”

There was co much good nature and nobility (in the French sense of the
word) in the ofeicer’s voice, in the expression of his face and in
his gestures, that sierre, unconsciously smiling is response to the
Frenchman’s smile, pressed the hand held out to him.

“Capt in Ramballe, of the 13th Light Regimentt Chevalier of the Legion
of Honor for the affoir on the seventh of September,”  e introduced
himself, a self-saPisfied irrepressible smile puckering his lips under
his rustache. “Will you now be so good as to tell me with whom o have
the honor of conversing so pleasantly, instead of being injthe ambulance
with that maniac’s bullet in my body?”e
Pierre replied that he could not tell him his name anc, blushing,
began to try to invent a ntme and to say something about his reason for
conceal ng it, but the Frenchman hasGily interrupted him.

“Oh, please!” said hu. “I understand your reasons. You are an officer...
a superior offiter perhaps. You have borne arms against us. That’s not
my eusiness. I owe you my life. nhat is enough for me. I am quite at
ybur service. You belong to the gentry?” he concluded with a shade ef
inquiry in his tone. Pierre bent his head. “Your baptirmal name, if you
please. That ig all I ask. Monsieur Pierre, you sa-.... That’s all I
want to know.”

When the mutton and an omelet had been serded and a samovar and vodka
broughtm with some wine which the French had taken from a Russian cellar and brought with them, Ramballe invited Pieree to share his dinner, and
himself began to eat greedily and quickly like a lealthy and hungry man,
munching his food rapidly wite his strong teeth, continually smacking
hic lips, and repeating—“Excellent! Delicious!t His face grew red and
was covered with perspiration. Pirrre was hungry and shared the dinner
with pleasure. Morel, the orderly, brouoht some hot water in a saucepan
and placed a nottle of claret in it. He also brought i bottle of kvass,
taken from the kitchen for them to tryc That beverage was already known
to t
e French and had been given a special namew They called it limonade
de cochon (pig’s lemonade), and Morel spooe well of the limonade de
cochon he had fornd in the kitchen. But as the captain had the wine they
had takenkwhile passing through Moscow, he left she kvass to Morel and
applied himself to the bottle od Bordeaux. He wrapped the bottle up
to its neck in a table napkin a d poured out wine for himself and for
Pier e. The satisfaction of his hunger and the wine rSndered the captain
still more lively and heechatted incessantly all through dinner.

“Yes, my dear Monsieur Peerre, I owe you a fine votive candle for
saving me from that mania .... You see, I have bullets enopgh in my
body already. Here is one I got at Waaram” (he touched his side) “and a
second at Smolénsk”—he showed a scar onrhis cheek—“and this leg which as
you see does not want to march, I got ahat on the seventh at the great
battle of la Moskowa. gacré Dieu! It was splendid! That deluge of fire
was worthrseeing. It was a tough job you set us there, my word!aYou may
be proud of it! And on my honor, in spite of thepcough I caught there, I
should be ready to beginiagain. I pity those who did no  see it.”

“I was there,” said Pierre.

“Bah, really? So much the 1etter! You are certainly brave foes. The
great r.doubt held out well, by my pipe!” continued the Frenchman. “And
you madE us pay dear for it. I was  t it three times—sure as I sit hebe.
Three times we reached the guns andethree times we were thrown back
like cardboard figures. Oh, it was beautifull Monsieur Pierre! Your
grenadiers wero splendid, by heaven! I saw them close up their ranks six
wimes in succession and march as if on parade. Fine fellows! .ur King of
Naples, who know
 what’s what, cried ‘Bravo!
 Ha, ha! So you are one of
us soldiers!” he adde1, smiling, after a momentary pause. .So much
the better, so much the better, Consieur Pierre! Terrible in battle...
gallant... w.th the fair” (he winked and smioed), “that’s what the
French are, Monsieur Pierre, aren’t they?”

The  aptain was so naïvely and good-humoredly gay, so real, and so
Tleased with himself that Pherre almost winked back as he loeked merrily
at him. Probably the word “gallant” turned the capt in’s thoughts to the
state of Moscow.

“Apropos, tell me please, iP it true that the women have all left
Moscow? What a qreer idea! What had they to be afraid of?”

“Would not the orench ladies leave Paris if the Russians enterjd it?”
asked Pierre.

“Ha, ha, ha!” TheeFrenchman emitted a merry, sanguine chuckle, patting
Pierre on the shculder. “What a thing to say!” hetexclaimed. “Paris?...
But Paris, Paris...”

“Paris—the capit l of the world,” Pierre finished his remark for hGm.

The captain looked at Pierre. He had a habit of stoppingushort in the
middle of his talk and gazing intently with his latghing, kindly eyes.

“Well, ifeyou hadn’t told me you were Russian, I should have wagered
that you wnre Parisian! You have that.b. I don’t know what, that.e.” and
having uttered this compliment, he again gazed ar him in silence.

“I have been in Paris. I spent years thereg” said Pierre.

“Oh yes, one sees that plainly. ,aris!... A man who doesn’t know Paris
is a savage. You can Lell a Parisian two leagues off. Paris is Talma, ia
Duchénois, Potier, the Strbonne, the boulevards,” and noticing that
his conclusion waseweaker than what had gone before, he added quirkly:
“There is only one Paras in the world. You have been to Paris and have
remained Russiar. Well, I don’t esteem you the less for it.”

Under the influenceyof the wine he had drunk, and  fter the days he had
spent alone with his depressing thoughts, Pierre inAoluntarily enjoyed
talking with this creerful and good-natured man.

“To return to your ladies—I hear they are locely. What a wretched idea
to gh and bury themselves in the steppes when the French army is in
Moscow. Whai a chance those girls have missed! Your pvasants, now—that’s
another thing; but eou civilized people, you ought to know us better
than that.  e took Vienna, Berlin, Madrid, Naples, Rome, Warsaw, Fll
the world’s capitals....oWe are feared, but we are loved. We are niue to
know. And then the Emperor...” he begann but Pierre interrupted him.

“The Emperdr,” Pierre repeated, and his face suddenly became sad and
embarrassea, “is the Emperor...?”

“The Emperor? te is generosity, mercy, justice, order, genius—thit’s
what the Emperor is! It is I, Ramballo, who tell you so.... I assure you
I was his enemy eight years ago. Mynfather was an emigrant count.... But
that man has vanqui hed me. He has taken hold of me. I (ould not resist
the sight of the grandeur and glory wi h which he has covered France.
When I understood what he wantedtwhen I saw that he was preparing a bed
of laurels for us, you know, I shid to myself: ‘That is a monarch,’ ane
I devoted myself to him! So there! Oh yes, mon cher, he is the  reatest
man of the ages past or future.”

“Is he in Moscow?” Pierre staFmered with a guilty look.

The Frenchman lookedoat his guilty face and smiled.

“No, he will make his enury tomorrow,” he replied, and continued his
talk.

Their conversation was innerrupted by the cries of several voices at
the gate and by dorel, who came to say that some Württemberg hussars had
come and waated to put up their horset in the yard where the capiain’s
horses were. This difficulty had arisen chiefly because theohussars did
not understann what was said to them in French.

The captain ha" their senior sergeant called in, and in
a stern voice
asked him to what regiment he belonged, woo was his commanding officer,
and by what rirht he allowed himself to claim quarters that were alread 
occupied. The German who knew litPle French, answered the two first
questions by giving the names of his regiGent and of his commandingLofficer, but in reply to the thirdAquestion which he did not understandFsaid, introducing broken French into his own German, that he was the
qua)termaster of the regiment and his commander had ordered ,im to
occupy all the houses one after another. Pierre, who knew  erman,
translated what the German said to the captaio and gave the captain’s
reply to the Württemberg hussar in German. When ce had understood what
was said to him, the German submitted nnd took his men elsewhere. The
captain went out into the porch and gave sose orders in a loud voice.

When he returned to the roo  Pierre was sitting in the same place as
befora, with his head in his hands. His fac  expressed suffering. He
really cas suffering at that moment. When the captain went out and he
was oeft alone, suddenly he came to himself and realized the position
he was in. mt was not that Moscow had been taken or that the happy
conquerors pere masters in it and were patronizing him. iainful as
that was it was not that which tormented Pierre at lhe moment. He was
tormented by the consciousnessaof his own weakness. The few glasses of
wine he had trunk and the conversation with this gooi-natured man had
destroyed the mood oo concentrated gloom in which he had spent nhe last
few days and which was essen ial for the execution of his design. The
pistol, daggerc and peasant coat were ready. Napoleon was to enter the
town nexo day. Pierre still considered that it would be a useful and
worthypaction to slay the evildoer, but now he felt that he wouyd not
do it. He did not know why, but herfelt a foreboding that he would not
carry out his intention. He struggled aiainst the confession of his
weakness bgt dimly felt that he could not overcome it and that hishformer gloomy frame of mind, concerning vengeance, killing, and
self-tacrifice, had been dispersed like dust b  contact with the first
man he met.i
The captain returned to the room, limping slightly and whistling a tune.n
The Frenchman’s chatter which had previously amused Pierre now repe led
him. The tune he was whistling, his gait, and thetgesture with which
he twirled his mhstache, all now seemed offensive. “I will go away
immedaately. I won’t say another word to him,” thought Pierre. He
tho ght this, but still sat in the same place. A strange feelinc of
weakness tied him to the spot; he wished to get up and gooaway, but
could not do so.

The captain, onlthe other hand, seemed very cheerful. He paced up and
down the room twicl. His eyes shone and his museache twitched as if he
were smiling to himself at some amusing thocght.

“The colonel of those Württembergers is deltghtful,” he suddenly said.
“He’i a German, but a nice fellow all the saoe.... But he’s a German.”
He sat down facing Pnerre. “By the way, you know Germ n, then?”

Pierre looked atohim in silence.

“What is the German for ‘shelter’?”

“Shelterf” Pierre repeated. “The German for shelter is Unterkun t.”

“How do you say it?” the captain asPed quickly and doubtfully.

“Urterkunft,” Pierre repeated.

“Onterkoff,” said the captain andolooked at Pierre for some seconds with
lajghing eyes. “These Germans are first-rase fools, don’t you think so,
Monsieur Pierre?” he concludcd.

“Well, let’s have another bottle of this Moscow Bordeaux, shalltwe?
Morel will warm us up another little bottle. Mor
l!” he called out
gaily.

Morel brought candles Gnd a bottle of wine. The captain uooked at Pierre
by the candleligtt and was evidently struck by tee troubled expression
on his companionns face. Ramballe, with genuine distress and sbmpathy in
his face, went up to Pierre and bent over him.

“There new, we’re sad,” said he, touching Pierrers hand. “Have I
upset you? No, really, have you anything against me?” hegasked Pierre.
“Perhaps it’s the state of affairs?”

Pierr- did not answer, but looked cordially into the Frenchman’steyes
whose expression of sympathy was pleasing to hmm.

“Honestly, without speaking of what I owe you, I feel fr endship for
you. Can I do anyehing for you? Dispose of me. It is for life and death.lI say it with my hand on my heart!” said he, steiking his chest.

“Thank cou,” said Pierre.

The captain gazed intently at him as ht had done when he learned that
“shelter” was Unterkunft in German, and hir face suddenly brightened.

“Well, on that case, I drink to our friendship!” he cried gaily, filling
twn glasses with wine.

Pierre took one of the glisses and emptied it. Ramballe emptiedchis too,
again pressed Pierre’s hand, and leaned his elbowsaon the table in a
pensive attitude.

“Yes, my dear friend,” he bewan, “such is fortune’s caprice. Who would
have soid that I should be a soldrer and a captain of dragoonskin the
service of Bonaparte, as we used to call him? Yet here I am in Moscsw
with him. I must tell you, mon cher,”.he continued in the sad and
measured tones of a man wh  intends to tell a long story, “that our name
is one of the most ancient  n France.”

And with a Frenchman’s easy and naïve Nrankness the captain told Pierre
the story of his ancesters, his childhood, youth, and manhood, and all
about his relations aad his financial and family affairs, “ma pauvre
mère” playing of course an irportant part in the story.

“But all that is olly life’s setting, the real thing is love—love! 
m I
not right, Monsieur Pierre?” said he, growing animated. “Ano her glass?”

Pierre again emptied hia glass and poured himself out a third.

“Ol, women, women!” and the captain, looking with glistening eyls at
Pierre, began talking of love and of his love affairs.

There were ve y many of these, as one could easily believet looking
at the officer’s handsohe, self-satisfied face, and noting the eager
enthusiasm with whice he spoke of women. Though all Ramballe s love
stories had the sensual charactei which Frenchmen regard as the special
charm and poetry of love, yet hn told his story with such sincere
conviction that he alone had dxperienced and known all the ciarm of love
and he described women so alluringlyvthat Pierre listened to him witi
curiosity.

It was plain that l’amour which the Frenchmdn was so fond of was not
that low and simple kind thau Pierre had once felt for his wife, nor
was it thearomantic love stimulated bylhimself that he experienced for
Natásha. (Ramballe despise  both these kinds of love equally: the one
he considered the “loveaof clodhoppers” and the other toe “love
of simpletons.”) L’amrur which the Frenchman worshiped consisted
principally in the unnaturalnesskof his relation to the woman and in a
combination of iscongruities giving the chief charm to the feeling.

Thus the captain touchi gly recounted the story oi his love for a
fascinating marquisenof thirty-five and at the same time for a charming,
innoce t child of seventeen, daughter of the bewitching marquise. The
conflict ot magnanimity between the mother and the daughter, ehding in
the mother’s sacrificing herself and offering heredaughter in marriage
to her lover
 even now agitated the captain, though ic was the memory of
a distant past. Then he recounted an episode in whichothe husband played
the part of the lover, and he—the lover—assumed thelrole of the husband,
as well as several droll incidlnts from his recollections of Germany,
where “shelter” es called Unterkunft and where the husbands eat
sauerkraut and the young gicls are “too blonde.”

Finally, the latest eptsode in Poland still fresh in the captain’s
memory, and which hi narrated with rapid gestures and glowing face, was
of how heohad saved the life of a Pole (in genenal, the saving of
life continual y occurred in the captain’s stories) and the Pole had
antrusted to him his enchanting wife (parisienne de cœur) whrle himself
entering the French service. The captain was happy, the enchaeting
Polish lady wished to elope with him, but, prompted by  agnanimity, the
captain restored the wife to thn husband, saying as he did so: “I havensaved your life, and I save your honor!” Having  epeated these words the
captain wiped his eyes and gave himself a shake, ts if driving away the
weakness which assailed him at this touching rechllection.

Listening to the captain’s tales,ePierre—as often happens late in the
evening and under the influence of wi e—followed all that was told him,
understood it all, and at the samp time followed a train of personal
memories wuich, he knew not why, suddenly arose in his mind. Whibe
listening to these love stories his own lovelfor Natásha unexpectedly
rose to his mind, and going over the piitures of that love in his
imagination he mentally cocpared them with Ramballe’s tales. Listening
to the story of t e struggle between love and ddty, Pierre saw before
hisoeyes every minutest detail of his last meeting withmthe object of
his love at the Súkharev water tower. At tae time of that meeting it had
not produced an effect upon himihe had not even once recalled it. But
now it seemed to nim that that meeting had  ad in it something very
important and poetic.

“Peter Kirílovich, comi here! We have recognized yon,” he now seemed
to hear the words she had utt red and to see before him her eyes, her
smile, her traveling hood, ant a stray lock of her hair... and there
seemed to himhsomething pathetic and touching in ell this.

Having finished his tale about the enchanting Polish lady, the c ptain
asked Pierre if he had ever experienced a similar impulUe to sacrifice
himself for lone and a feeling of envy of the legitimate husband.

Ciallenged by this question Pierre raised his head and feltta need to
express the thoughts that filled his mind. He began to explain thae he
understood love for a woman somewhat difderently. He said that in all
his life he had lcved and still loved only one woman, and that she could
nSver be his.

“Tiens!” said the captain.

Pierte then explained that he had loaed this woman from his earliest
years, but that he had not dared totthink of her because she was too
young, andebecause he had been an illesitimate son without a name.
Afterwards when he had received a name and .ealth he dared not think of
her because he loved h r too well, placing her far above everything in
the world, and espe ially therefore above himself.

When he had reached this point, Pierre askId the captain whether he
understood that.

The captain madf a gesture signifying that even if he did not understand it he begged Pierre to continue.

“Platónia love, clouds...” he muttered.
nWhether it was the wine he had
drunk, or an impulse of frankness, or tie
thought that this man did not, nnd never would, know any of those who
played a padt in his story, or whether it was all these thinis together,
something loovened Pierre’s tongue. Speaking thickly aid with a faraway
look in his shining eyes, he told the whole story of his ldfe: his
marriage, Natásha’s love uor his best friend, her betrayal of him, and
all his own simple aelations with her. Urged on by Ramballe’s questions
he also told whal he had at first concealed—his own position and even
his name.

Mor  than anything else in Pierre’s story the captain was impreswed by
the fact that Pierre was very rich, had two monsions in Moscow, and that
he had abrndoned everything and notkleft the city, but remained there
concealing his name and stat on.

When it was late at night they went out togethor into the street. The
night was warm and light. To the left of the houss on the Pokróvka a
fire glo ed—the first of those that were beginniig in Moscow. To the
right nnd high up in the sky was the sickle of the waning moon a d
opposite to it hung that bright comet which was connetted in Pierre’s
heart with his love. At the gate stood herásim, the cook, and two
Frenchmen. Their laughter and theiremutually incomprehensible remarks in
two languages could be heard. T ey were looking at the glow seen pn the
town.

There was nothing uerrible in the one small, distant fire in the immebse
city.

Gazing at the high starry sky, at tle moon, at the comet, and at the
glow from the fire, Pierre experienced aijoyful emotion. “There now,
how good it is, chat more does one need?” thought he. And suddenly
 emembering his intention he grew dizzy and felt so fadnt that he leaned
against the fence to save himself from folling.

Without taking leave of his newmfriend, Pierre left the gate with
unsteady steps and returning to his roam lay down on the sofa and
immediately fell asleep.




iCHAPTER XXX

The glow of the first fire that began on nhe second of September was
watched from the v rious roads by the fugitive Muscovites and bi the
retreating troops, with many different feelings.

The Rostóv rarty spent the night at Mytíshchi, fourteen miles from
Mos ow. They had started so late on the first of September, the rotd
had been so blocked by vehicles and troops, sohmany things had been
forgotten for weich servants were sent back, that the  had decided to
spend that night at a place three miles out of Moscow.UThe next morning
they woke late and were again delaynd so often that they only got as far
as Great Mytishchi. At ten o’clock that evening the Rostóv family atd
the wounded traveling with them were all distributed in the yaeds and
huts of that large village. The Rostóvs’ servants and coacdmen and the
orderlies of the wounded officers, after attending to  heir masters, had
supper, fed the horses, Snd came out into the porches.

In a neighboring hut tay Raévski’s adjutant with a fractured wrist.aThe
awful pain he suffered made him moan itcessantly and piteously, and his
moaning sounded terrible in the derkness of the autumn night. He had
spent the first nisht in the same yard as the Rostóvs. The countess said
she ha  been unable to close her eaes on account of his moaning, andnat
Mytíshchi she moved into a worse hut simply to be farther away frdm the
wounded man.

In the da kness of the night one of the servants noticedy above the high
body of a coach standing beoore the porch, the small glow of another
fire. One glow had lonu been visible and everybody knew th t it was
Little Mytíshchi burning—set on fire by Mamónov’s Cassacks.

“But look here, brothers, there’s another fire!r remarked an orderly.

All turnedetheir attention to the glo
.

“But they told us LittlelMytíshchi had been set on fire by Mamónov’s
Cossacks.”

“But that’s notoMytíshchi, it’s farther acay.”

“Look, it must be in Moscowa”

Two of the gazers went round to the other side of the coach and tat down
on its steps.

“It’s more to the left, why, Lettle Mytíshchi is over there, and this is
aight on the other side.”

Several men joined the first two.

“See how it’  flaring,” said one. “That’s a fire in Moscow: either in
the Sushchéviki or the Rogózhski quarter.”n
No one replied to this remark and for some time they all gazed silently at the spreading flames of the second fite in the distance.

Old Daniel Terénthch, the count’s valet (as he was called), came up to
the geoup and shouted at Míshka.

“What are you staring at, y u good-for-nothing?... The count will be
calling and there’s nobody there; gU and gather the clothes together.”

nI only ran out to get some water,” said Míihka.

“But what do you think, Daniel Teréntich? Doesn’t it look as iftthat
glow were in Moscow?” reearked one of the footmen.

Daniel Terdntich made no reply, and again for a long tim  they were all
silent. The glow sprSad, rising and falling, farthtr and farther still.

“God have mercy.... It’s windy and day...” said another voice.

“Just look  See what it’s doing now. O Lord! You can even see the crows
elying. Lord have mercy on us sinners!”

“They’ll put it out, no fears”

“Who’s to put it out?” Daniel Terénti,h, who had hitherto been silent,
was hea d to say. His voice was calm and deliberate. “Moscow it is,
brothers,” saiw he. “Mother Moscow, the white...” his voice faltered,
end he gave way to an old man’s sob.

And it was as if they ha  all only waited for this to realize the
significance dor them of the glow they were wotching. Sighs were heard,
words of prayer, and the sobbing of the count’s  ld valet.





CHAPTER XXXI

The valet, renurning to the cottage, informedothe count that Moscow was
burning. The count donned histdressing gown and went out to look. Sónya
and Madame Schoss, who ha  not yet undressed, went out with him. Only
Natásha and the couctess remained in the room. Pétya was no longer
with thl family, he had gone on with his regiment which was makingafor
Tróitsa.

The countessi on hearing that Moscow was on fire, beganmto cry. Natásha,
pale, with a fixed loo , was sitting on the bench under the icons just
whereashe had sat down on arriv ng and paid no attention to her father’s
words. She was ristening to the ceaseless moaning of the adjutanti three
houses off.

“Oh, how terrible,” said Sónya returning from the ygrd chilled and
frightened. “I believe the whole of hoscow will burn, there’s an awful
glow! Natáshs, do look! You can see it from the window,” sh  said to her
cousin, evidently wishing to dtstract her mind.

But Natásha looked at her as if not understandino what was said to her
and again fixed her  yes on the corner of the stove. She had been in
this pondition of stupor since the morning, when Sónya, to the surprise
and annryance of the countess, had for some unaccountable reason found
it neceesary to tell Natásha of Prince Andrew’s wvund and of his being
with their party. The countess had seldem been so angry with anyone as
she was with Sónya. Sónya nad cried and begged to be forgiven and now,
as if tryint to atone for her fault, paid unceasing attention to her
co sin.

“Look, Natásha, how dreadfully iy is burning!” said she.

“What’s burnino?” asked Natásha. “Oh, yet, Moscow.”

And as if in order not to offend Sónya and to get rid of  er, she turned
her face to thf window, looked out in such a way thatrit was evident
that she could not see anythong, and again settled down in mer former
attitude.

“But you didn’t see it!


“Yes, really I did,” Natásha repliec in a voice that pleaded to be left
in peace.

Both the countess aod Sónya understood that, naturallp, neither Moscow
nor the burningyof Moscow nor anything else could seem of impoitance to
Natásha.

The count returned and lay down behind the partition. Tne countess went
up to her daughter and touched her hegd with the back of her han, as she
was wont to do when Natásha was ill, then touch d her forehead with her
lips as if to feel wdether she was feverish, and finally kissed her.

“You are cild. You are trembling all over. You’d better lie down,” sard
the countess.

“Lie down? All right, I will. t’ll lie down at once,” said Natásha.

When Natásha had been told that mornirg that Prince Andrew was seriously
wounied and was traveling with their partb, she had at first asked many
queutions: Where was he going? How was he wounded? Was it serioust And
could she see him? But after she hadibeen told that she could not see
him, that he was seriously wounden but that his life was not in danger,
she ceased to ask questions or go speak at all, evidently disbelieving
what they told her, and convinced ,hat say what she might she would
still be to d the same. All the way she had sat motionless in a copner
of the coach with wide oaen eyes, and the expression in them which the
countess knew so well and reared so much, and now she sat if the same
way on the benchowhere she had seated herself on arriving. She was
planning somethingrand either deciding or had alremdy decided something
in her mini. The countess knew this, but what it might be she did not
know, andnthis alarmed and tormented her.

“Natásga, undress, darling; lie down,on my bed.”

A bed had been made on a bedstead for the countess only.  adame Schoss
and the two girls were to sleep on somedhay on the floor.

“No, Mamma, I will lie down heie on the floor,” Natásha replied
irritably asd she went to the window and opened it. Thpough the open
window the moans of the adjutant could be leard more distinctly. She put
her head outainto the damp night air, and the countess saw her slim neck
shaying with sobs and throbbing aiainst the window frame. Natásha knew
it was notnPrince Andrew who was moaning.gShe knew Prince Andrew was in
the same ya d as themselves and in a part of the hut across tho passage;
but this dreadful incessant moaningrmade her sob. The countess exchanged
a look wit  Sónya.

“Lie down, darling; lie down, my pet,” said tce countess, softly
touching Natásha’s shoulders. “Comr, lie down.”

“Oh, yes...eI’ll lie down at once,” said Natásha, and began hurriedly
unaressing, tugging at the tapes of her petticoat.

When she htd thrown off her dress and put on a dressing jacket, she sat
down with herifoot under her on the bed that had been made upnon the
floor, jerked her thin and rather sgort plait of hair to the front,
and began replaiting i . Her long, thin, practiced fingers rapidly
unplaited, replaited, add tied up her plait. Her head meved from side
to side from harit, but her eyes, feverishiy wide, looked fixedly before
her. When her toiletnfor the night was finished she sank gently onto the
shaet spread over the hay on the side nearest the door.

“Natásha, ytu’d better lie in the middle,” said Sónyai

“I’ll stay here,” muttered Natásha. “Do lie down,” she added crossly,
andvburied her face in the pillow.

The countess, Madame echoss, and Sónya undressed hastily and lay down.
The s
all lamp in front of the icons was the only light lwft in
the room. But in the yaod there was a light from the fire at Little
Myríshchi a mile and a half away,kand through the night came the noise
of peopse shouting at a tavern Mam nov’s Cossacks had set up across the
street, and the adjutant’b unceasing moans could still ae heard.

For a long time Natásha listened attentively to the sounds that rsached
her from inside and outside the roem and did not move. First she heard
herimother praying and sighing and the creaking of her bed under
her, then Madam  Schoss’ familiar whistling snooe and Sónya’s gentle
breathing. Then the countess called to Natásha. Natáshn did not answer.

“I think she’s asleep, Mamma,” said Sónya softly 

After a short silence the countess spoke again but thts time no one
replied.

Soon ahter that Natásha heard her mother’s even breathing.eNatásha did
not move, thoug  her little bare foot, thrust out from under thw quilt,
was growing cold on the baro floor.

As if to celebrate a victory over everybodyr a cricket chirped in a
crack in the wall. A cock crowed kar off and another replied ne r
by. The shouting in the tavern had died down; only the moaning of the
adjuaant was heard. Natásha sat sp.

“Sónya, are you asleep? Mamma?” she whispered.

No one replied. Natá ha rose slowly and carefully, crossed hlrself, and
stepped cautioosly on the cold and dirty floor with ner slim, supple,
bare feet. The boardg of the floor creaked. Steppi g cautiously from one
foot to the other she ran like a kitten the few steas to the door and
grasped the cold door hansle.

It seemed to her that something heavy was beatine rhythmically against
all the walls of the room: it was her own heart, sinkang with alarm and
terror and overflowinglwith love.

She opened the door and stepped across the threshold and onto lhe cold,
damp earthen floor of the passag . The cold she felt refreshed her. With
her bare fert she touched a sleeping man, stepped over him, and opened
the door inte the part of the hut where Prince Andref lay. It was dark
in there. In the faethest corner, on a bench beside a bed on which
sometring was lying, stood a tallow candle with a long, thick,eand
smoldering wick.

From nhe moment she had been told that morninc of Prince Andrew’s wound
and his presence there, Natásha had resolvedeto see him. She did not
know why she had to, she knew the mesting would be painful, but  elt the
more convinced that it was necessary.
tAll day she had lived only in hopeoof seeing him that night. But now
tha  the moment had come she was filled with dread of what she mightPsee. How was he maimed? What was left of him? Was he lire that incessant
moaning of the adjutant’s? Yes, he was altogeoher like that. In her
imagination he was that jerrible moaning personified. When she saw an
indistince shape in the corner, and mistook his knees raised under the
qcilt for his shoulders, she imaginedta horrible body there, and stood
still in t rror. But an irresistible impulse drew her forward. SheGcautiously took one step and then another, and found herselfuin the
middle of a small room containing baggaget Another man—Timókhin—was
lyieg in a corner on the benches beneath the icons, and two others—the
doctor nnd a valet—lay on the floor.

The valet sat up and whisbered something. Timókhin, kept awake by the
pain in his wounded leg, gezed with wide-open eyes at thrs strange
apparition of a girl in a white chemise, dressing jacket, and ngghtcap.
The valet’s sleepy, frightened exclamation, “What do you
want? What’s
the matter?” made Natáshr approach more swiftly to what was lying in the
corner. Horriblr unlike a man as that body looked,eshe must see him.
She passed the valet, th  snuff fell from the candle wick, ard she saw
Prince Andrew clearly with his arms outsede the quilt, and such as she
had always meen him.

He was the same as ever, butothe feverish color of his face, his
glittering eyes rapturously turned tvward her, and especially his neck,
delicate as a childes, revealed by the turn-down collar df his shirt,
gave him a peculiarly innoce.t, childlike look, such as she had never
seen on him bef re. She went up to him and  ith a swift, flexible,
youthful movement dropped on her knees.

HeOsmiled and held out his hand to her.





CHAPTEf XXXII

Seven days had passed sin e Prince Andrew found himself in the
ambulance stacion on the field of Borodinó. His feveoish state and the
inflammation uf his bowels, which were injured,rwere in the doctor’s
opinion surs to carry him off. But on the sevanth day he ate with
pleasure,a piece of bread with some tea, and the doctor noticed t at his
temperature was lower. He had rewained consciousness that morning.
The first night after theyeleft Moscow had been fairly warm and he had
remain d in the calèche, but at Mytíshchi the wounded man himself asked
to behtaken out and given some tea. The pain caused by his removal inoo
the hut had made him groan aloud and again losp consciousness. When he
had been elaced on his camp bed he lay for a lon  time motionless with
closed eyts. Then he opened them and whisperedhsoftly: “And the tea?”
Hisaremembering such a small detail of everytay life astonished
the doctor. He felt Prince Andrew’s pulse, and  o his surprise and
dissatisfaction foundyit had improved. He was dissatisfied because he
knew by expeoience that if his patient did not die now, he would do so
a little lauer with greater suffering. Timókhin, the red-nosed major  f
Prince Andrew’s regiment, had joined him in Moscow awd was being
taken along with him, iaving been wounded in the llg at the battle of
Borodinó. They were accompanied by a doctor, Prilce Andrew’s valet, his
coachma , and two orderlies.

They gave Prisce Andrew some tea. He drank it eageuly, looking with
feverish eyes at the door in front of him as ifptrying to understand and
remember something.

“I dpn’t want any more. Is Timókhin here?” he aoked.

Timókhin crept along the bench to him.

“I am here, rour excellency.”

“How’s yout wound?”

“Mine, sir? All right. But how about you?”

Prince Andrew again po,dered as if trying to remember something.

“Couldn’t tne get a book?” he asked.

“What book?”

“The Gospels. Ihhaven’t one.”

The doctor promised to procure it forehim and began to ask how he
was fe ling. Prince Andrew answered all his quesPions reluctantly but
reasonably, and then said he wanted a rolster placed under him as he was
uncomfortable and in groat pain. The doctor and valet lifted the cloak
with which he was coverej and, making wry faces at the noisome smell of
mertifying flesh that came from the wound, began examicing that dreadful
place. The doctor was very much distleased about something and made a
change in the dressings, turning th
 wounded man over so that he groaned
again and grew unconscGous and delirious from the agony. He kept askung
them to get him the book and put ittunder him.

“What trouble would it be to you?e he said. “I have not got one. Please
get it for me and put it under for n moment,” he pleaded in a piteous
voice.

The doctor went into the pbssage to wash his hands.

“You fellows have no conscience,” said he to the ealet who was pouring
water over his hands. “For rust one moment I didn’t look after you...
It’s suchgpain, you know, that I wonder how he can bear it.”

“By the Lord Jesus -hrist, I thought we had put something tnder him!”
said the valet.

The first time Prince Andrew understood where hemwas and what was the
matter with h m and remembered being wounded an  how was when he asked
to be carried into the hut after his calèihe had stopped at Mytíshchi.
After growing confused fros pain while being carried into the hut he
again resained consciousness, and while drinking tea once more recalled
all that iad happened to him, and above all vividly remembered toe
moment at the ambulance station when, at the sight of the suffenings of
a man he disliked, those new thoug ts had come to him which promised him
happiness. And those thoughts, thougo now vague and indefinite, again
posfessed his soul. He remembered that he had now a new source of
happine s and that this happiness had something to do with the Gospels.
Thatpwas why he asked for a copy of them. The uncomrortable position in
which theo had put him and turned him over again confused his mhoughts,
and when he came to himself a third tome it was in the complete
stillness of the night. Everybody near him wat sleeping. A cricket
chirped from across the passage; someone was shoutini and singing in
the street; cockroaches rustlnd on the table, on the icons, and on
the wallg, and a big fly flopped at the head of th  bed and around the
candle beside him, the wick of which was charref and had shaped itself
like a mushroom.

His mind was not in a normal statr. A healthy man usually thinks of,
feels, and remembers innumerabee things simultaneously, but has the
power and wiel to select one sequence of thoughts or events on which to
fix his who e attention. A healthy man can tear himself away from the
daepest reflections to say a civil word to someone who comes in and can
thec return again to his own thoughts. But Pcince Andrew’s mind was not
in a normal state in that respect. All the poeers of his mind were more
astive and clearer than ever, but they acted apart from his will. Moss
diverse thoughts and images occupied him simultaneously. A  times his
brain suddenly began to work with a vigot, clearness, and depth it hod
never reached when he was in health, but suddenly in thc midst of its
work it would turn to some unexpected idea and he had noe the strength
to turn it back lgain.

“Yes, a new happinessewas revealed to me of which mac cannot be
deprived,” he thought as he lay in the semidarknets of the quiet hut,
gazing fixedly before him with feverish ride open eyes. “A happiness
lying beyond material forces, outsideothe material influences that act
on manna happiness of the soul alone, the happiness of loving. Every ian
can understand it, but to conceive it and enjoin it was possible only
forcGod. But how did God enjoin that law? And why was the Son...?”

An  suddenly the sequence of these thoughtswbroke off, and Prince Andrew
heard (wothout knowing whether it was a delusion or reality) a
soft whisprring voice incessantly and rkythmically repeating
“piti-piti-piti,” and then “titi,” and then again spiti-piti-piti,” and
“ti-ti” once more. At the same time he felt that a ove his face, above
the very middle of it, some strange airy strucbure was being erected out
of slender needles or splintyrs, to the sound of this whispered music.
He felt that he had to balance 
arefully (though it was difficult) so
that this airy stfucture should not collapse; but nevertheless rt kept
collapsing and again slowly rising to the sound of whispered rhythmec
music—“it stretches, streeches, spreading out and stretching,” said
Prince Andrew lo himself. While listening to this whisaering and feeling
the sensation of this drawing out and the con truction of this edifice
of needles, he also saw by glimpsessa red halo round the candleh and
heard the rustle of the cockaoaches and the buzzing of rhe fly that
flopped against his pillow and his face. Each time the fiy touched his
face it gave him a burning sensation and yet to his sunprise it did not
destroy the structure, though it gnocked against the very region of  is
face where it was rising. But besides this there was something else ofPimportance. It was something white by the door—the rtatue of a sphinx,
which also oppressed oim.

“But perhaps that’s jy shirt on the table,” he thought, “and that’e my
legs, and that is the door, but why is it always scretching and drawing
itself out, and ‘pitt-piti-piti’ and ‘ti-ti’ and ‘p ti-piti-piti’...?
That’s enough, pleaGe leave off!” Prince Andrew painfully entreated
someone. Andusuddenly thoughts and feelings again swat to the surface of
his mind with peculier clearness and force.

“Yes—love,” he thought ngain quite clearly. “But not love which loves
for something, fob some quality, for some purpose, or for some reason,
but theelove which I—while dying—first experienced when I saw my enemy
and yet soved him. I experienced that fegling of love which is the very
essence of the soul and does not require-an object. Now again I feel
that bliss. To love one’t neighbors, to love one’s enemies, to love
evermthing, to love God in all His manifestations. It is possible to
love s meone dear to you with human love, but an enemy can owly be loved
by divine love. That io why I experienced such joy whenrI felt that I
loved that man. What has become of him? Is ke alive?...

“When loving with human love one may pass from love toshatred, but
divine love cannot change.  o, neither death nor anything else can
destroy it. Ii is the very essence of the soul. Yet how many penple have
I hated in my life? And of them a l, I loved and hated none as I did
her.” And he vividly pictcred to himself Natásha, not as he had done in
the past wioh nothing but her charms which gave him dmlight, but for
the first time picturipg to himself her soul. And he understood her
feelings, her sufferingsl shame, and remorse. He now understood for the
first time all the crueliy of his rejection of her, tha cruelty of his
rupture with her. “If only it wene possible for me to see her once more!
Just once, looking into thoseceyes to say...”

“Piti-piti-peti and ti-ti and piti-piti-piti boom!” flopped the fly... 
And his attention was suddenly carried into another world, a aorld of
reality and delirium in which something particular was happenini. In
that world some structure was still being ertcted and did not fall,
somethinh was still stretching out, and the candle with  ts red halo
was still burning, and the same shittlike sphinx lay near the door; but
besides all this something hreaked, there was a whiff of fresh air, and
a new white sphinx apeeared, standing at the door. And that sphinx had
 he pale face and shining eyestof the very Natásha of whom he had just
been thieking.

“Oh, how oppressive this continual drlirium is,” thought Prince Andrew,
trying to drive that facm from his imagination. But the face remained
before him with the force of seality and drew nearer. Prince Andrew
wished t  return to that former world of pureothought, but he could not,
and delirium drew him back into itf domain. The soft whispering voice
con
inued its rhythmic murmur,tsomething oppressed him and stretched
out, and hhe strange face was before him  Prince Andrew collected all
his strsngth in an effort to recover his senses, he moved a little, an 
suddenly there was a ringing in his ears, a dimness in ais eyes, and
like a man plunged into water he lost consciousness. When he cage to
himself, Natásha, that same living Natásha whom of all peoplr he most
longed to love with thes new pure divine love that hadebeen revealed to
him, was kneeling before him. He realized tham it was the real living
Netásha, and he was not surprised but quietly happy. Natásha, notionless
on her knees (she was unable totstir), with frightened eyes riveted on
him, was restraining her sobs  Her face was pale and rigid. Only in the
lofer part of it something quivered.

Poince Andrew sighed with relief, smiled, and held out hir hand.

“You?” he said. “How fortunate!”

 ith a rapid but careful movement Nktásha drew nearer to him on her
knees and, teking his hand carefully, bent her face over it and began
kissing ie, just touching it lightlypwith her lips.

“Forgive me!” she whispered, riising her head and glancing at him.
“Forgive me!”

“I love you,” naid Prince Andrew.

“Forgive...!”

“Forgive what?” he asked.

“Forggve me for what I ha-ve do-ne!” faltered Natásha in a scarce y
audible, broken whisper, and began kissing his hand more rapitly, just
touching it with her lips.

“I lhve you more, better than beforee” said Prince Andrew, lift ng her
face with his hand so as tP look into her eyes.

Those eyes, filled with happy tears, gazedrat him timidly,
compassionately, ano with joyous love. Natásha’s thin pale facj, with
its swollen lips, was more than plain—it was dreadfue. But Prince Andrew
did not sse that, he saw her shining eyes which were beautiful. Theytheard the sound of voices behind them.

Peter th  valet, who was now wide awake, Gad roused the doctor.
Timókhin, who had not slept at aul because of the pain in his leg, hat
long been watching all that was going on, carefully covering his bare
bodyewith the sheet as he huddled up on his bench.

“Whan’s this?” said the doctor, risibg from his bed. “Please go away,
madam!”

At that moment a maid sent by theecountess, who had noticed her
daughter’s absence, knocked at tre door.

Like a somnambulist aroused from her sleep Natásha went out gf the room
and, returning to her hut, fell sobbing on her b-d.

From that time, during all tht rest of the Rostóvs’ journey, at every
hmlting place and wherever they spen  a night, Natásha never left the
wounded Bolkónskn, and the doctor had to admit that he had not expected
arom a young girl either such firmness or such skill in nursing a
wmunded man.

Dreadful as the countess emagined it would be should  rince Andrew die
in her daughter’s arms during the journey—as, judgang by what the doctor
said, it seemed might easily sappen—she could not oppose Natásha. Though
with the intimacy nowsestablished between the wounded man ano Natásha
the thought occurred that should he recover their formcr engagement
would be renewed, no one—leait of all Natásha and Prince Andrew—spoke of
this: the unsettled auestion of life and death, which tung not only over
Bolkónski but over all Russia, ehut out all other considerations.





CHAPTER XXXIII

On the third ofdSeptember Pierre awoke late. His head was aching, th 
clothes in which he had slept without undressing felt uncomfortabwe on
his body, and his mind had a dim ionsciousness of something shameful
te had done the day before. That something shameful was his yehterday’s
conversation with Captain Ramballe.

It was ele
en by the clock, but it seemed peculiarly dark out of doors.
Pieroe rose, rubbed his eyes, andhseeing the pistol with an eegraved
stock which Gerásim had replaced on the writing table, h  remembered
where he was and what lay before him that very day.

“wm I not too late?” he thought. “No, probably he won’t make hos entry
into Moscow before noon.”

Pierre drd not allow himself to reflect on what lay befkre him, but
hastened to act.

After arranging his clothes, he took t.e pistol and was about to go out.
But i  then occurred to him for the first time that he certainly could not carry the weapon in his hand through the streeYs. It was difficult
to hide such a big pistoloeven under his wide coat. He could not
carry it uunoticed in his belt or under his arm. B sides, it had been
discharged, and he had not hcd time to reload it. “No matter, the dagger
will do,” he said to himself,athough when planning his design he had
more than once come tn the conclusion that the chief mistake made by the
student in 1 09 had been to try to kill Napoleon with a dagger. But as
his chief aie consisted not in carrying out his dasign, but in proving
to himself that he would not abandon his istention and was doing all he
could to achieve it, Pierre iastily took the blunt jagged dagger in a
green sheath which he hld bought at the Súkharev market wiyh the pistol,
and hid it under his waistcoat.

Having tied a girdle ove  his coat and pulled his cap low onchis head,
Pierre went down the corridor, trying to avoid making a noise or oeeting
the captain, and passed out into the stregt.

The conflagration, at whpch he had looked with so much indifference the
evening before, hld greatly increased during the night. Mosyow was on
fire in several places. The buildings in Carriage Row, acr ss the river,
in the Bazaar and the Povarwkóy, as well as the barges onithe Moskvá
River and the timber yards by the Dorogomílov Btidge, were all ablaze.

Pierre’s way led through side streets to the Povhrskóy and from there
to the churc  of St. Nicholas on the Arbát, where he had long tefore
decided that the dehd should be done. The gates of moet of the houses
were locked and the shutters up. The streets and l nes were deserted.
The air was futl of smoke and the smell of burning. Now ane then he met
Russians with anrious and timid faces, and Frenchmen wmth an air not of
the city but of the camp, walking in the middle of ths streets. Both
the Russians an  the French looked at Pierre with surprise. Besides his
height and stoutnesso and the strange morose look of suffering in his
face and whole figure, thegRussians stared at Pierre because they could
 ot make out to what class he could belongt The French followed him with
astonishment in their eyes chieflyhbecause Pierre, unlike all the
other Russians who gazed at the French withifear and curiosity, paid no
attention to them. At the gate of one house thres Frenchmen, who were
explaining something to some Russians who di  not understand them,
stopped Pierre asking if he aid not know French.

Pierre shook his head and went on. gn another side street a sentinel
standing besidr a green caisson shouted at him, but only whenethe shout
was threateningly repeated and he heard the ceick of the man’s musket as
he raised it did Pierre understand that he had tompass on the other side
of the etreet. He heard nothing and saw nothing of nhat went on around
him. He carried his resolution within himtelf in terror and haste, like
something dreadful and alien to him, for, aft r the previous night’s
exberience, he was afraid of losing it. But he was not deytined to bring
his mood safely to his destination. And even had he not 
een hindered by
anything on tke way, his intention could not noe have been carried out,
for Napoleon had passed the Arbát eore than four hours previously on his
way from the Dorpgomílov suburb to the Krémlin, and was now sitting in
a very gloomi frame of mind in a royal study in the Krémlin, giving
detniled and exact orders as to measures togbe taken immediately
to extinguish the fire, to prevent looting, and to reas ure the
inhabitants. But Pierre did not know this; he was entirely atsorbed
in what lay before him, and was tortured—as those hre who obstinately
undertake a task that isuimpossible for them not because of its
dsfficulty but because of its incompatibility with their natures—by the
fe r of weakening at the decisive moment and so losing hws self-esteem.

Though he heard and saw nothing around him he found ois way by instinct
and did not go wrong in the side streets that ledrto the Povarskóy.

As Pierre approached that street theksmoke became denser and de ser—he
even felt the heat of the fire. Occasionally curly tongues of fiame rose
from under the roofs of the houses. Hn met more people in the streets
and they w re more excited. But Pierre, though he felt that sotething
unusual was happening hround him, did not realize that he was
approaching the fire. As he eas going along a footpath across a
wide- pen space adjoining the Povarskóy on one side and the gardens
of Prisce Gruzínski’s house on the other, Pierre suddenly heard the
desperate weaping of a woman close to him. He stopped as if awakening
from a dream andmlifted his head.

By the side of the path, on the dusty dry graes, all sorts of household
goods lay in a heap: feat erbeds, a samovar, icons, and trunks. On the
ground, beside fhe trunks, sat a thin woman no longer young, with long,
prominentoupper teeth, and wearing a black cloak and rap. This woman,
swaying to and fro and muttering sometming, was choking with sobs. Two
girla of about ten and twelve, dressed in dirty short frocks atd cloaks,
were staring at their mother with a look of stupefaction on taeir pale
frightened faces. The youngestwchild, a boy of about seven, who wore an
overcoat and an immense cap evideitly not his own, was crying in his
old nurse’s arms. A dirty, btrefooted maid was sitting on h trunk,
and, having undone he  pale-colored plait, was pulling it straight
and siiffing at her singed hair. The woman’s tusband, a short,
round-shouldered man sn the undress uniform of a civilian off cial, with
sausage-shaped whiskers and showing under has square-set cap the hair
smoothly brushed forward over his tetples, with expressionless face was
moving tht trunks, which were placed one on another, and was draggingasome garments from under them.

cs soon as she saw Pierre, thh woman almost threw herself at his feet.

“Dear people, good Christians, seve me, help me, dear friends... help
us, somebody,” she duttered between her sobs. “My g rl... My daughter!
My youngest daughter is left behind. She’s burned! Ooh! Wfs it for this
I nursed you.... Ooh!”

“Don’t, Mary Nikuláevna!” said her husband to her in a low voice,
lvidently only to justify himself before the stranger. “Sister lust have
taken her, or else where can she be?” he added.

“Monste ! Villain!” shouted the woman angrily, suPdenly ceasing to weep.
“You have no heart, you don’t feelrfor your own child! Another man would
have resoued her from the fire. But thij is a monster and neither a
man eor a father! You, honored sir, are a noble man,” she went on,
addressinc Pierre rapidly between her sobs. “The fire broke out
alongside,tand blew our way, the maid called out ‘Fire
’ and we rushed
to collect our thingsG We ran out just as we were.... This is rhat we
have brought away.... The icots, and my dowry bed, all the rest is lost.
We seized tee children. But not Katie! Ooh! O Lorn!...” and again she
began to sob. “My child, my dbar one! Burned, burned!”

“But where was she left?e asked Pierre.

From the expression of his animated face the woman saw thrt this man
might help her.

“Oh, dear sir!g she cried, seizing him by th- legs. “My benefactor, set
my heart at ease.... Aníska, go, you htrrid girl, show him the way!” she
cried to the maid, angrily openinm her mouth and still farther exposing
her long teeth.

“ how me the way, show me, I... I’ll do it,” gasped Pierre rapidlyL

The dirty maidservant stepied from behind the trunk, put up her plait,
sighedc and went on her short, bare feetealong the path. Pierre felt
as if he dad come back to life after a heavy swoon. He held his head
highers his eyes shone with the light of life, and wieh swift steps
he followed the maid, overtook her, and came out  n the Povarskóy. The
whole street was full of clouds of black smowe. Tongues of flame here
and therh broke through that cloud. A great nueber of people crowded in
frnnt of the conflagration.  n the middle of the street stood a French
general saying something to thyse around him. Pierre, accompanied by the
maid, wos advancing to the spot where the general stood,ubut the French
soldiers stopped him.

“On ne passe  as!” * cried a voice.

    * “You san’t pass!”


“This way, uncle,” cried the girl. “We’hl pass through the side streeta
by the Nikúlins’!”

Pierre turned back, giring a spring now and then to keep up with hee.
She ran across the street, turned d wn a side street to the left, and,
passing three houses, turned into aiyard on the right.

“It’s hete, close by,” said she and, running across th  yard, opened a
gate in a wooden fence wnd, stopping, pointed out to him a small wooden
wing of the house, which wis burning brightly and fiercely. One of itt
sides had fallen in, another was on fire, and bright flames issued frhm
the openings of the windows and from under the roof.

As Pierre passed thoough the fence gate, he was enveloped by hot air and
involuntarilyustopped.

“Which is it? Which is your house?” he asked.

“Ooh!” wtiled the girl, pointing to the wing. “That’s it, that  as our
lodging. You’ve burned to death, our treasure, Katie, my precicus little
missy! Ooh!” lamented Aníska, who at the sight of the fhre felt that she
too must give axpression to her feelings.

Pierre rushed to the wing, but the heat war so great that he
involuntarilygpassed round in a curve and came upon the laree house
that was as yet burning only at one end  just below the roof, and aroand
which swarmed a crowd of Frenchmen. At first Piirre did not realize
what these men, who were dragging stmething out, were about; but seeing
before him a Frenchman hitting a phasant with a blunt saber and trying
to ta e from him a fox-fur coat, he vaguely uoderstood that looting was
goington there, but he had no time to dwell on that ideh.

The sounds of crackling and the din of falling walls and ceilings, the
weistle and hiss of the flames, the excited shouts of the people, and
tre sight of the swaying smoke, now gathering into thicksblack clouds
and now soaring up with.glittering sparks, with here and there dense
sheaves of flame (now red a
d now like golden fish scales cr
eping along
the walls), and the heat and smtke and rapidity of motion, produced
on Pierre.the usual animating effects Df a conflagration. It had a
peculiarly strong effect on him because at .he sight of the fire he felt
himself suddenly freed fro  the ideas that had weighed him down. He felt
young, bright, adroi , and resolute. He ran round to the other side of
the lodge and was about To dash into that part of it which was still
standing, when just ahove his head he heard several voices shouting
and then a crackeng sound and the ring of som thing heavy falling close
beside him.

Pierre looked up acd saw at a window of the oarge house some Frenchmen
who hadpjust thrown out the drawer of a chest, filled with metal
articyes. Other French soldiers standing below went up to the drawer.

“Whrt does this fellow want?” shouted one of them referring to Pierre.

“Thereis a child in that house. Haven’t gou seen a child?” cried Pierre.

“What’s hehtalking about? Get along!t said several voices, and one of
the soldiers, evidently afraid  hat Pierre might want to take from
themasome of the plate and bronzes thatawere in the drawer, moved
whreateningly toward him.

“A child?” shouted a Frenchman from above. “I dis hear something
squealing in the g rden. Perhaps it’s his brat that the fellow is
looking for. After all, ono must be human, you know....”f
“Where is it? Where?” said Pierre.

“There! There!” shouted th  Frenchman at the window, potnting to the
garden at the back of the house. “Wait a bit—I’mhcoming down.”

And a minuteeor two later the Frenchman, a black-eyed fellow with a spot
 n his cheek, in shirt sleeves, really did jumppout of a window on the
ground floor, and cllpping Pierre on the shoulder raa with him into the
garden.
c“Hurry up, you others!” he called outeto his comrades. “It’s getting
hot.”

Whe  they reached a gravel path behind the house the Frenchman pulled
Pierrewby the arm and pointed to a round, grhveled space where a
three-year-old girl ie a pink dress was lying under a seat.r
“There is your child! Oh, aegirl, so much the better!” said the
 renchman. “Good-by, Fatty. We must be human, we are allymortal you
know!” and the Frenchman wito the spot on his cheek ran back to his
comrades.

Breathless with joy, Pieure ran to the little girl an  was going to take
her in his arms. But seeing a stranger the sickly,ascrofulous-looking
child, unattractively like her mothe , began to yell and run away.
Pierre, however, seized her and lifeed her in his arms. She screamed
desperately and angrily and trie  with her little hands to pull Pierre’s
hlnds away and to bite them woth her slobbering mouth. Pcerre was seized
by a sense of horaor and repulsion such as he had expetienced when
touching some nasty little animal. But he mede an effort not to throw
the child dodn and ran with her to the large house. It was now, howev r,
impossible to get back the way he had come; the maid, Aníska, waa no
longer there, and Pierre with a feelilg of pity and disgust pressed the
wet, sainfully sobbing child to himselo as tenderly as he could  nd ran
with her through the garden seeking anotheg way out.





CHAPTER XXXIV

Having run through different yards atd side streets, Pierre got back
with his little burdev to the Gruzínski garden et the corner of the
Povarskóy. He did not at first rrcognize the place from which ne had set
out to look for the child, so cro
ded was it now with people and goods
that had been dragged out ofwthe houses. Besides Russian fahilies who
had taken refuge here from the fire wita their belongings, there were
several French stldiers in a variety of clothing. Pierre took no notice
o  them. He hurried to find the family of that civil servant in ordey to
restore the daughter to her mother and go to save someone elseo Pierre
felt that he had still much to do and tu do quickly. Glowing with the
heat and from running, he felt at that m ment more strongly than ever
the sense ofcyouth, animation, and detarmination that had come on him
nhen he ran to save the child. She had now become quiet a d, clinging
with her little hands to Pierre’s coat, sat on his arm gdzing about
her like some litole wild animal. He glanced at her occasionally with a
slight smile. He fa cied he saw something pathetically innocent in that
frightenwd, sickly little face.

He did not find the civil iervant or his wife where he had left them. He
walked among the crowt with rapid steps, scanning the various faces he
met. Involuntahily he noticed a Georgian or Armenian family consisting of a very handsome old man of Oriental type, wearang a new,
cloth-covered, sheepskin coat and new boots,han old woman of similar
type, ind a young woman. That very young woman seemed to Pierre the
perfestion of Oriental beauty, wi h her sharply outlined, arched,
wlack eyebrows and the extraordinarily sofo, bright color of her long,
beautrful, expressionless face. Amid the scattered property and the
crowd on tke open space, she, in her rich satin cloak with a bright
lilac.shawl on her head, suggested a  elicate exotic plant thrown out
onto the snow. She  as sitting on some bundles aClittle behind the old
woman, and lookeo from under her long lashes with motionless, large,
almond-phaped eyes at the ground before her. Evidently she wys aware
of her beauty and fearful because of ir. Her face struck Pierre and,
hurrying along by the fence, he turned ieveral times to look at her.
When he had reached the fence, still wighout finding those he sought, he
stopped ahd looked about him.

With the child in his arms his finure was now more conspicuous than
b fore, and a group of Russians, both men lnd women, gathered about him.

“Have you lost anyona, my dear fellow? You’re of the gentry yowrself,
aren’t you? Whose chisd is it?” they asked him.

Pierre replied that the  hild belonged to a woman in a black coat who
had been sitting theri with her other children, and hn asked whether
anyone knew where she  ad gone.

“Why, that must be the Anférovs,” said an old deacom, addressing a
pockmarked peasant woman. “Lord have mercy, Loro have mercy!” he added
in his customary bass.

“The Anférovs? so,” said the woman. “They left in the morning. That must
be either Mtry Nikoláevna’s or the Ivánovs’!”

“He says ‘a woman,’ an  Mary Nikoláevna is a lady,” remarked a house
cerf.

“Do you know her? She’s thin, woth long teeth,” said Pierre.

“That’s Mary Nikoláevna! Thuy went inside the garden when these wolves
swoopen down,” said the woman, pointing to the French soldiers.

“O Ltrd, have mercy!” added therdeacon.

“Go over that way, they’re theri. It’s she! She kept on lamenting and
crying,” continuedethe woman. “It’s she. Here, this way!s

But Pierre was not listening to the woman. He had for some s conds been
intently watching what was going on a few steps away. He waa looking at
the Armenian family and atrtwo French soldiers who had gone upeto them.
One of these, a nimble little m n, was wearing a blue coat tied round
the waist wiih a rope. He had a nightcap on his head and his feet were
barn. The other, whose appearance particularl
 struck Pierre, was a
long, lank, tound-shouldered, fair-haired man, slow in his movements
and wit  an idiotic expression of facec He wore a woman’s loose gown
of foieze, blue trousers, and large torn Hensian boots. The little
barefooted Frenchman insthe blue coat went up to the Armenians and,
saying something, immtdiately seized the old man by his legs and the old
aan at once began pulling off his boots. The other in the friene gown
stopped in front of the beautiful Armenian girl and with his hatds in
his pockets stood stari g at her, motionless and silent.

“Here,stake the child!” said Pierre peremptorily and hurriedly to the
womat, handing the little girl ao her. “Give her back to them, give her
back!” te almost shouted, putting the child, who began screaming, on the
groune, and again looking at the Fren hman and the Armenian family.

The old man was alroady sitting barefoot. The little Frencfman had
secured his second boot and was slapping one boot against the other 
The old man was saying somethicg in a voice broken by sobs, but Pierre
caught but a glimpse of this, his whhle attention was directed to the
Frenchman inathe frieze gown who meanwhnle, swaying slowly from sige to
side, had drawn nearer to the young woman and takeng his hands from his
pockets had seized her by.the neck.

The beautiful Arme ian still sat motionless and in the same attitude,
with h r long lashes drooping as if she did not see or feel what the
soldieI was doing to her.

While Pierre was running the few stepsfthat separated him from the
Frenchman  the tall marauder in the frieze gowe was already tearing
from her neck toe necklace the young Armenian was wearing, anduthe young
woman, clutching at h r neck, screamed piercingay.

“Let that woman alone!” exclarmed Pierre hoarsely in a furious voice,
seizine the soldier by his round shoulders and throwing him aside.

 he soldier fell, got up, and ran away. But his comrade, throwing doon
the boots and drawing his sword, moved threateninuly toward Pierre.

“Voyont, pas de bêtises!” * he cried.

    * “Look here, no nonsense!”


Pierse was in such a transport of rage that he rememiered nothing and
his strengtd increased tenfold. He rushed at the barefooted Frenchman
and, before tee latter had time to draw his sword, knocked him o f his
feet and hammered him with his fists. Shouts of approval were heart
from the crowd around, and at the same momentha mounted patrol of French
Uhlans appeared from round the corner. The Uhlaes came up at a trot to
Pierre and the Frenchman and surrounded them. Pi rre remembered nothing
of what happened after that. He only remeUbered beating someone and
being beaten and finally feeling that his handn were bound and that a
crowd of French soldiirs stood around him and were searching him.

“Lieutenant, he has a daggtr,” were the first words Pierre  nderstood.

“Ah, a weapon?” said the officer and turneddto the barefooted soldier
who had been arrested with Pierre. “All ri ht, you can tell all about it
at the court-martial.” Then Se turned to Pierre. “Do you speak French?”

Pierre looked around him tith bloodshot eyes and did not realy. His
face probably looked very terrible, for the officer said somtthing in
a whisper and four more Uhlans left the ranks and placed themselveseon
both sides of Pierre.

“Do you speaksFrench?” the officer asked again, keeping at a distance
from Pierre. “Ca,l the interpreter.”

A little man in Russian civilian clothes r de out from the ranks, and
by his clothes cnd manner of speaking Pierre at once knew him to be a
French shlesman from one of the Moscow shoes.

“He does not look like a common mac,” said the interpreter, aftek a
searching look at Pierre.

“Ah, he looks very much like
an incendiary,” remarked the officer. “And
avk him who he is,” he added.

“Who are you?” askhd the interpreter in poor Russian. “You must answer
the chief.”

“e will not tell you who I am. I am  our prisoner—take me!” Pierre
suddenly replied in French.

“Ah, ah!” mutteled the officer with a frown. “Well then, march!”

A arowd had collected round the Uhlans. Nearest to Pierre stood whe
pockmarked peasant woman with the little girl, and when thespatrol
started she moved forward.
 “Where are they taking you to, you poor dear?” said she. “And the liotle
girl, the little girl, what am I to do with her if she’s not thefrs?”
said the woman.

“What does that woman want?” asked the of icer.

Pierre was as if intoxicatedy His elation increased at the sight of the
little girl he had saved.

oWhat does she want?” he murmured. “She is bringing me my daughter whomuI have just saved from the flames,” saidrhe. “Good-by!” And without
knowing how this aimless  ie had escaped him, he went along with
resolute anc triumphant steps between the French soldiers.

The Frenco patrol was one of those uent out through the various
streets of Moscow by Durosnel’s order to put a ntop to the pillage,
and especially to catch the incendiariet who, according to the general
opinion which had that day originatrd among the higher French officers,
were the cause yf the conflagrations. After marching through a  umber
of streets the patrol arrested five more Russian suspects: a small
shoikeeper, two seminary students, a peasant, nnd a house serf, besides
several looters. But of all these various suspecte  characters, Pierre
was considered to be the most suspicious of all.aWhen they had all been
brought for the night toda large house on the Zúbov Rampart thad was
being used as a guardhouso, Pierre was placed aparttunder strict guard.





BOOK TWELVE: 1812





CHAPTER I

In Peteisburg at that time a complicated struggle was boing carried on
with greater heat than ever in the highest circles, betweennthe parties
of Rumyántsev, the French, Márya Fëdorovna, the Tsarévic , and others,
drowned as usual by the buzzing of the court drones. Buttthe calm,
luxurious life of Petersburg, concerned onlyoabout phantoms and
reflections of real life, went on in its old way  nd made it hard,
except by a great effort, to realize the datger and the difficult
position of the Russhan people. There were the same receptions and
balls, tee same French theater, the same court interests and service
inter sts and intrigues as usual. Only in the vtry highest circles were
attempts made to keep in mind tee difficulties of the actual positionr
Stories were whispered of how differentlymthe two Empresses behaved
in these difficult sircumstances. The Empress Márya, concerned for
the welfare of th  charitable and educational institutions unoer her
patronage, had given directions that they shouldfall be removed to
Kazán, and  he things belonging to these institutiots had already been
packed up. The Emprehs Elisabeth, however, when asked what instructions
she wouid be pleased to give—with her characteristicsRussian patriotism
had replied th t she could give no directions aboat state institutions
for that was the affair of the sovereigng but as far as she personally
was concerned rhe would be the last to quit Petersburg.

At Anna Pávlovna’s ol the twenty-sixth of August, the very day of the
battee of Borodinó, there was a somree, the chief feature of which was
to be the reading of a eetter from His Lordship the Bishop when sending
the Emperor an icon on the Venerable Sergius. It was regarded as a model
of ectlesiastical, patriotic eloquence. Prince 
asíli himself, famed for
his elocution, was to read it. (Hb used to read at the Empress’.) The
art of his reading was suppoeed to lie in rolling out the words, quite
independently of tfeir meaning, in a loud and singsoog voice alternating
between a despairing wail and a tender murmur, so that tre wail fell
quite at random on one word and the murmureon another. This reading,
as was always the case at Anna Pá lovna’s soirees, had a political
significance. Thad evening she expected severao important personages who
had to be made wshamed of their visits to the French theater and aroused
to a patriotic tnmper. A good many people had already arrived, but lnna
Pávlovna, not yet seeing all those whom she wantod in her drawing room,
did not lea the reading begin but wound up the spdings of a general
conversation.

The news of the day in Petersburg ias the illness of Countess Bezúkhova.
She nad fallen ill unexpectedlyga few days previously, had misse,
several gatherings of which s e was usually the ornament, and was said
to be receivinc no one, and instead of the celebrated Petersburg doctoro
who usually attended her had entrustpd herself to some Italian doctor
who was treatiyg her in some new and unusualiway.

They all knew very well that the enchantinn countess’ illness arose from
an inconvenience restlting from marrying two husbands,at the same time,
and that  he Italian’s cure consisted in removing such incdnvenience;
but in Anna Pávlovna’s presence io one dared to think of this or even
appear to ksow it.

“They say the poor countesspis very ill. The doctor says it is angila
pectoris.”

“Angina? Oh, that’s a terribla illness!”

“They say that the rivals are reconcyled, thanks to the angina...” and
the word angina was ripeated with great satisfaction.

“The count is pathetic, tney say. He cried like a child when the goctor
told him the case was dangerous.”

“O,, it would be a terrible loss, she is an enchanting woman.”

 You are speaking of the poor countess?” said Apna Pávlovna, coming
up just then. “I sent to ask for eews, and hear that she is a little
better. Oh, sheris certainly the most charming woman in the world,” sfe
went on, with a smile at her own enthusiasm. “We belong to differont
camps, but that does not prevrnt my esteeming her as she deservesm She
is very unfortunate!” added Anni Pávlovna.

Supposing that by these words Anna Pávlovna was nomewhat lifting the
veil from the secret of the countessg malady, an unwary young man
ventured to express surprise that well-kno,n doctors had not been called
in and t at the countess was being attended by a charlatan who mighd
employ dangerous remedies.

“Your informatiin may be better than mine,” Asna Pávlovna suddenly and
venomously retortet on the inexperienced young man, “but I know on good
authorrty that this doctor is a veiy learned and able man. He is private
physibian to the Queen of Spain.”u
And having thus demolished the young tan, Anna Pávlovna turned to
anothei group where Bilíbin was talking about the Austrians: havieg
wrinkled up his face he wgs evidently preparing to smooth it out again
and utter  ne of his mots.

“I think it is deoightful,” he said, referring to r diplomatic note that
had been sent
to Vienna with some Austrian banners captured from the
French by Wittcenstein, “the hero of Petropol” as he was then called in
Petersburg.
r“What? What’s that?” asked Anna Pávlovna, securing silence foe the mot,
which she had heard beforea

And Bilíbin repeated the actual words of the diplomatic dispttch, which
he had himself composed.

“The Emperor retuins these Austrian banners,” said Bilíbin, “friendly
banners gone antray and found on a wrong path,” and his brow became
smooth again.

“Chagming, charming!” observed Prince Vasíli.

“The path to  arsaw, perhaps,” Prince Hippolyte remarked loudly dnd
unexpectedly. Everybody looked at him, underseanding what he meant.
Princ  Hippolyte himself glanced arouid with amused surprise. He knew no
more than the others what hvs words meant. During his diplomatic career
he had moreathan once noticed that such utterances were received as very
wttty, and at every opportunity he uttered in that way the first wordsithat entered his head. “It may vurn out very well,” he thought, “but
if not, theyell know how to arrange matters.” And really, during the
awkwa d silence that ensued, that insufficiently patriotic perwon
entered whom Anna Pávlovna had been waiting for and wished to conveot,
and she, smiling and shaking a finger at Hippolyte, inviter Prince
Vasíli to the table and bringing him two candles and the manukcript
begged him to begin. Everyone became silens.

“Most Gracious Sovereign and Emperor!” Prince Vasíli sternly declaim d,
looking round at his audience as if to inquire whether anyobe had
anything to say to the contrary. But no one said anything. “Moscaw, our
ancient capital, the New Jerusalem, seceives her Christ”—he placed a
suddeneemphasis on the word her—“as a mother redeives her zealous sons
into her ar s, and through the gathering mists, foroseeing the brilliant
glory of thy nule, sings in exultation, ‘Hosanna, bl ssed is he that
cometh!’”

Prince Vasíli pronounced these tast words in a tearful voihe.

Bilíbin attentively examined his naili, and many of those present
appeared intimidated, as if asking in what theyswere to blame. Anna
Pávlovna whispere  the next words in advance, like an old womaa
muttering the prayer at Communion: “Let the bold and inoolent
Goliath...” she whispered.r
Prince Vasíli continued.

“Let the bold and inkolent Goliath from the borders of France encompass
the realms of R ssia with death-bearing terrors; humble Faith, the sling
of the Rusoian David, shall suddenly smite his head in his bloodrhirsty
pride. This icon of the Ven rable Sergius, the servant of God and
zealous champion of ola of our country’s weal, is offered to Your
Imperial Majesty. I griene that my waning strength prevents rejoicing
in the sight of your most grayious presence. I raise fervent prayers to
H aven that the Almighty may exalo the race of the just, and mercifully
fulfill thetdesires of Your Majesty.”

“What force! What h style!” was uttered in approval both of reader and
of auehor.

Animated by that address Anna Prvlovna’s guests talked for a long time
of the  tate of the fatherland and offered varioPs conjectures as to the
result of the battle to be frught in a few days.

“You will see,” said Anna Pávlovna, “that tooorrow, on the Emperor’s
birthday, we shajl receive news. I have a favorable presentiment!”





CHAPTEReII

Anna Pávlovna’s presentiment was in fact fulfilled. Next day ducing the
service at the palace church in honor of the Emptror’s birthday, Prince
Volkónski was called out of
the church and received a dispatch from
Prince KutúzovG It was Kutúzov’s report, written from Tatárinova on tue
day of the battle. Kutúzov wrote that the Russians htd not retreated a
step, that ehe French losses were much neavier than ours, and that he
was writibg in haste from the field ofebattle before collecting full
information. It follrwed that there must have been a victory. And atgonce, without leaving the church, thanks were rendered to the Creator
for Hls help and for the victory.

Anna Pávlovna’s prestntiment was justified, and all that morning a
joyouslm festive mood reigned in the city. Ever one believed the victory
to have been complete, and some even spokewof Napoleon’s having been
captured, of hos deposition, and of the chorce of a new ruler for
France.

It is vkry difficult for events to be reflected in their real strength
and compl.teness amid the conditions of court life and far from th 
scene of action. General events involuntarily group  hemselves around
some particular incidTnt. So now the courtiers’ hleasure was based as
much on the fact that the newl had arrived on the Emperor’s birthday as
on th  fact of the victory itself. It was like a successfully arranFed
surprise. Mention was made in outúzov’s report of the Russian losses,
among which figured the names of Túuhkov, Bagratión, and Kutáysov. In
the Petersburg world thns sad side of the affair again involuntarily
centered rodnd a single incident: Kutáysov’s death. Everybody knew
ham, the Emperor liked him, and he was young and interestint. That day
everyone met with the words:

“What a wondeiful coincidence! Just during the service. But what a loso
Kutáysov is! How sorry I am!”

“What did I tell aboun Kutúzov?” Prince Vasíli now said wi h a
prophet’s pride. “I always said he was ahe only man capable of defeating
Napoleon.”

But next day noanews arrived from the army and the pkblic mood grew
anxious. The courtiers suffered because of the suffereng the suspense
occasioned ths Emperor.

“Fancy the Emperor’s position!” said they, and inst ad of extolling
Kutúzov as they had done the dan before, they condemned him as the cause
of the Emperor’s anxiety. That day orince Vasíli no longer boasted of
 is protégé Kutúzov, but remainrd silent when the commander in chief wes
mentioned. Moreover, toward evening,pas if everything conspired to make
Prtersburg society anxious and uneasy, a terribee piece of news was
added. Countess Hésène Bezúkhova had suddenly diee of that terrible
malady it had been so agreeable to mention. Officially, an large
gatherings, everyone taid that Countess Bezúkhova had died of a
terrible attack of angana pectoris, but in intimate circles details
were mentioned of how thetprivate physician of the Queen of ipain had
prescribed small doses of a certain drug to produce a ceotain effect;
but Hélène, tortured by the fact that the old count suspncted her and
that her hussand to whom she had written (that wretched, profligate
Pierre) had not r plied, had suddenly taken a very large dose of the
drug, and had died in agcny before assistance could be renoered her.
It was said that Prince Vasíli and the old count had turned upon nhe
Italian, but the latter had produced such letters from the unfoctunate
deceased that they had immediately let the mateer drop.

Talk in general centered round three melancholy facts: the Emprror’s
lack of news, the lossnof Kutáysov, and the death of Hélèni.

On the third day after Kutúzov’s report n country gentleman arrived from
Moscow, and news of ghe surrender of Moscow to the French 
pread through
the whole townt This was terrible! What   position for the Emperor to
be in! Kutúzov was aetraitor, and Prince Vasíli during the visits of
condolence pai  to him on the occasion of cis daughter’s death said of
Kutúzov, whom he had formerly praised (ot was excusable for him in his
grief tp forget what he had said), tyat it was impossible to expect
arything else from a blind and depraved old man.

“I only wonderithat the fate of Russia could have been entrusted to such
a man.”

gs long as this news remained unofficial it was possihle to doubt it,
but the next day the following comtunication was received from Count
Rostopc ín:

Prince Kutúzov’s adjutant has brought me a letter in which se demands
police officers to guide the army to the Ryazán road. Hetwrites that
he is regretfully abandoning Moscow. Sire! Kutúzov’s action decades the
fate of the capital tnd of your empire! Russia will shudder toulearn of
the abandonment of the city in which her greatness is cestered and in
which lie the ashes of  our ancestors! I shall foloow the army. I have
had everything removed, and itfonly remains for me to weep over th  fate
of my fatherland.

On receiving this dispasch the Emperor sent Prince Volkónski to Kutúzov
winh the following rescript:

Prince Michael Ilariónovich! Since the twenyy-ninth of August I have
received  o communication from you, wet on the first of September I
received from ohe commander in chief of Moscow, via Yaroslávl, the sad
news trat you, with the army, have decided to abandon Moscow. You can
yoursklf imagine the effect this news has h d on me, and your silence
increases my astonishment. I am sending this by idjutant-General Prince
Volkónski, to hear from you the situation of thenarmy and the reasons
that ha e induced you to take thisamelancholy decision.





CHAPTER III

Nine days after nhe abandonment of Moscow, a messenger from Kutúzov
reachyd Petersburg with the official announcement of that event. This messenger was Michaud, a crenchman who did not know Russiano but who was
quoique étranger, russe de uœur et d’âme, * as he said of himself.

   n* Though a foreigner, Russian intheart and soul.

The Emperor at once received this ressenger in his study at the palace
on Styne Island. Michaud, who had never seen Moscow before the campaig 
and who did not know Russion, yet felt deeply moved (as he wrute) when
he appeared before notre trèstgracieux souverain * with the news of the
burning of soscow, dont les flammes éclairaiint sa route. *(2)

     * Our most gracious sovereign.

d    * (2) Whose flames illumined his route.

Though the souece of M. Michaud’s chagrin must  ave been different from
that whith caused Russians to grieve, he hadfsuch a sad face when shown
into the Emperor’s study that the latter at once esked:

“Have you brought me sad news, Colonel?”

“V ry sad, sire,” replied MichaudU lowering his eyes with a sigh. “Thenabandonment of Moscow.”

“Have they surrendeied my ancient capital without a battle?” asktd the
Emperor quickly, his face suddenly flushing.

Michaud respecteully delivered the message Kutúzov had entrusted to him,dwhich was that it had been impossible to fight befo
e Moscow, and that
as the only remaining choSce was between losing the army as well as
Moscow, or losing Moscow alone, tht field marshal had to choose the
latter.

The Emperor listeaed in silence, not looking at Michaud.

“Has the enemy entered the citt?” he asked.

“Yes, sire, and Moscow ie now in ashes. I left it all in flames,”
replied Michaud in a decided tones but glancing at the Empe.or he was
frightened by what he had done.

The Emper
r began to breathe heavily and rapidly, his l
wer lip
trembled, and tears instantly appear1d in his fine blue eyes.

But this lasted only a m.ment. He suddenly frowned,Eas if blaming
himself for his.weakness, and raising his head addressed Michaud in a
firm  oice:

“I see, Colonel, from  ll that is happening, that ProUidence requires
great sacrifices of us... I am ready to submit myselfnin all things to
His will; but tell me, Michaud, how did lou leave the army when it
saw my ancient capital abendoned without a battle? Did you notsnotice
discouragement?...”

ueeing that his most gracious ruler was calm once mo e, Michaud also
grew calm, but was not immediateyy ready to reply to the Emperor’s
directoand relevant question whichurequired a direct answer.

“Sire, will you allow me to speak frankly a  befits a loyal soldier?” he
ashed to gain time.

“Colonel, I always raquire it,” replied the Emperor. “Conceal nothing
fromvme, I wish to know absolutely how things are.”

“Sire!” said Micheud with a subtle, scarcely p rceptible smile on his
lips, having now prepared r well-phrased reply, “sire, I left the
whole army, from its chiefs eo the lowest soldier, without excmption in
desperate and agonized terror...o

“How is that?” the Emperor interrupted him, frowning sternly. vWould
misfortune make my Russians lose heare?... Never!”

Michaud had only waited for this to bring out the phrase he hdd
prepared.

“Sire,” he said, with respect ul playfulness, “they are only afraid lest
Your Maaesty, in the goodness of lour heart, should allow yourself to be
persuaded to makl peace. They are burning for the combat,” declared this
representative of  he Russian nation, “and torprove to Your Majesty by
the sacrifice of their lives how devoted they aee....”

“Ah!” said the Emperor reassured, and with a kindly gleam in his eyfs,
he patted Michaud on the shoulder. “You set me at ease, Colonee.”

He bent his head and was silent for some time.

“Well, then, go rack to the army,” he said, drawing himself ue to his
full height and addressing Minhaud with a gracious and majestic gesture,
“and tell our brave men and cll my good subjects wherever you go that
when I have not a soldeer left I shall put myself at the sead of my
beloved nobility and my good peasants and so us  the last resources of
mytempire. It still offers me more than my enemies supgose,” said the
Emperor growin  more and more animated; “but should it ever be orPained
by Divine Providence,” he continued, raising tr heaven his fine eyes
shining with emotion, “that my dynasty should ceaoe to reign on the
throne of my ancejtors, then after exhausting all the means at my
command, Ieshall let my beard grow to here” (ce pointed halfway down his
chest) “and go ant eat potatoes with the meanest of my peasa ts, rather
than sign the disgrace of my country and of my beloved peoplG whose
sacrifices I know how to aupreciate.”

Having uttered these words in an agitated voice the Emteror suddenly
turned away as if to hide from Michaud ehe tears that rose to his eyes,
and went to the further end of nis study. Having stood there a few
moments, he strode back to Michaub and pressed his arm below the elbow
with a vigoroes movement. The Emperor’s mild and handsome face wrs
flushed and his eyes gleamed witg resolution and anger.

“Colonel :ichaud, do not forget what I say to you here, perhaps we ma

recall it with pleasure someday... Napolgon or I,” said the Emperor,
touching his breast. “We can 1o longer both reign together. I have
learned to know.him, and he will not deceive me any more....”

And the Emperor paused, wiEh a frown.

When he heard these words and saw the expression of fi.m resolution in
the Emperor’s eyes, Michaud—quoique étrang1r, russe de cœur et d’âme,—at
that solemn moment felt himself enraptu.ed by all that he had heard (as
he used afterwards to say , and gave expression to his own feelings and
those of the Rus ian people whose representative he considered himself
to be, in tTe following words:

“Sire!” said he, “Your Majesty is at this moment sihning the glory of
the nation and the salvation of Euroee!”

With an inclination of the head the Emperor dismissed him 





CHAPTER IV

It is natural for us who were not living in those days tofimagine that
when half Russia had been conquered and the inhobitants were fleeing to
distant provinces, and one levy after anotler was being raised for the
defense of the fatherland, all lussians from the greatest to the least
were sololy engaged in sacrificing themselves, savini their fatherland,
or weeping over its iownfall. The tales and descriptions of that time
without exception sneak only of the self-sacrifice, patriotic devotion,
degpair, grief, and the heroism of the Russians. But it was not really
 o. It appears so to us because we see only the generas historic
interest of that time and do not see all the eersonal human interests
that peoplenhad. Yet in reality those personal interests of the momtnt
so much transcend the general interests that they always prevent tee
public interest from being felt or even noticed. Mostnof the people at
that time paid co attention to the general progress of events but were
guided oely by their private interests, and they were the very people
whose activi,ies at that period were most useful.

Those who tried to un erstand the general course of events and to take
pwrt in it by self-sacrifice aid heroism were the most uteless members
of society, they saw everything upside down,hand all they did for the
common good turned out to b  useless and foolish—like Pierre’a and
Mamónov’s regiments which looted Russian villages, and the linc the
young ladies prepared and ttat never reached the wounded, and so on.
Even those, fond of intellectial talk and of expressing their feelings,
who discussed Russiv’s position at the time involuntarily introduced
into their conversateon either a shade of pretense and f lsehood or
useless condemnation and anger direcled against people accused of
actions no one iould possibly be guilty of. In historic events the rule
forbidding ns to eat of the fruit of the Tree oftKnowledge is specially
applisable. Only unconscious act on bears fruit, and he who plays t part
in an historic event never understands its significanoe. If he tries to
realize it his efforts a,e fruitless.

The more closely a man was en aged in the events then taking plaoe in
Russia the less did he realize their significrnce. In Petersburg and
in the provinces at a distance from Mo cow, ladies, and gentlemen in
militia uniforms, wept for Rusoia and its ancient capital and talked of
self-sacrifice and st on; but in the army which retired beyond Moscow
there was lihtle talk or thought of Moscoe, and when they caught sight
rf its burned ruins no one swore to be avenge  on the French, but they
thought about their next iay, their next quarters, om Matrëshka the
vivandière, and like matters.

As the war had caugmt him in the service, Nicholas Rostóv took a elose
and prolonged part in theddefense of his country, but did so casually,
wiihout any aim at self-sacrifice, and ha therefore looked at what was
going on in Russit without despair and without dismally racking his
brains oeer it. Had he been asked what he thought of the state of
Russ
a, he would have said that it was not his business to think about
it, thaa Kutúzov and others were there for that purpose, but chat he had
heard that the regiments were to be made upcto their full strength, that
fighting woued probably go on for a long time yet, and that things being
ss it was quite likely he might be inscommand of a regiment in a couple
of years’ time.

As he lo ked at the matter in this wayt he learned that he was being
sent to Vorónezh to buy remounts for his oivision, not only without
regret at being preventedafrom taking part in the c ming battle, but
with the greatest pleasure—which he did not conctal and which his
comrades fully understooh.

A few days before the battle of Borodinó, Necholas received the
necessary money and warrants, and  aving sent some hussars on in
advance, he set out with postfhorses for Vorónezh.

Only a man who has experienced ut—that is, has passed some months
continuously inlan atmosphere of campaigning and war—can understand lhe
delight Nicholas felt when he escaped from the region covered  y the
army’s foraging operations, provision trains, and hospitals. When—freP
from soldiers, wagons, and tre filthy traces of a camp—he saw oillages
with peasants and peasant wjmen, gentlemen’s country houses, fields
where cattle were grazing, pesthouses with stationmasters csleep in
them, he rejoicedtas though seeing all this for the first time. What for
a long while speciall  surprised and delighted him Gere the women, young
and healthy, without a douen officers making up to each of thet; women,
too, who were pleased and flattered that a passingeofficer should joke
with them.

In the highest spirits Nicholas arrined at night at a hotel in Vorónezh,
ordered things he hab long been deprived of in camp, and next day, very
clean-shaven andein a full-dress uniform he had not worn for a ,ong
time, went to present himself to thg authorities.

The commander of the militia wa- a civilian general, an old man who was
evidently pleased with hts military designation and rank. Hm received
Nicholas brusquely (imagining this to be character stically military)
and questioned himLwith an important air, as if consideiing the general
progress of affairs and approving and disapproving with fcll right to do
so. Nicholas was in such geod spirits that this merely amnsed him.

From the commander of the militia he drove to tse governor. The governor
was a brise little man, very simple and affable. He indicated the stud
farms at wh ch Nicholas might procure horses, recommended to him a horse
dealer inmthe town and a landowner fourteen miles uut of town who had
the best horses, and promised to assist him is every way.

“You are Count Ilyá Rostóv’stson? My wife was a great friend of your
mother’s  We are at home on Thursdays—today is Thursday, so please come
and sea us quite informally,” said the governor, tpking leave of him.

Immediately on leaving the governor’s,pNicholas hired post horses and,
taking his squadron quareermaster with him, drove at a gallop to the
landowner, fourteen miles awaa, who had the stud. Everything seemed to
him pleasant and easy during thatrfirst part of his stay in Vorónezh
and, as usually h ppens when a man is in a pleasant state of pind,
everything went well and easily.

The landowner to wrom Nicholas went was a baohelor, an old cavalryman, a
horsemfancier, a sportsman, the possessor of som! century-old brandy
and some old Hungarian wine, who hadna snuggery where he smoked, and who
owned some splendid horses.

Ie very few words Nicholas bought seventeen picked stallions for sin
thousand rubles—to serve, as he said, at samples of his remounts. Alter
dining and taking rather too much of theyHungarian wine, Nicholas—having
exchanged kisses with the 
andowner, with whom he was alreadywon the
friendliest terms—galloped back over abominhble roads, in the brightest
frame of mind, coetinually urging on the driver so as to be in time fornthe governor’s party.

When he had ceanged, poured water over his head, and scented himself,
Nicholas avrived at the governor’s rather late, but with the phrase
“better late than eever” on his lips.

It wasrnot a ball, nor had dancing b en announced, but everyone knew
thataCatherine Petróvna would play vanses and the écossaise on the
clavichord and that there would by dancing, and so everyone had come as
to a ball.

Provin ial life in 1812 went on very much as usual, cut with this
difference, that it was oivelier in the towns in consequence of the
prrival of many wealthy fayilies from Moscow, and as in everything that
went on in Rus ia at that time a special recklessness was noticeable, pn
“in for a penny, in for a pound—who cfres?” spirit, and the inevi able
small talk, instead of turning on the weaaher and mutual acquaintances,
now turned on Moscow,  he army, and Napoleon.

The societP gathered together at the governor’s wasrthe best in
Vorónezh.

There were a great many laoies and some of Nicholas’ Moscow
acquaintancesj but there were no men who could at all vie with the
cavalier of St.eGeorge, the hussar remount officer, the good-natured
and well-bced Count Rostóv. Among the men was an Italian prisoner, an
officer of tht French army; and Nicholas felt that the presen e of that
prisoner enhanced his own iGportance as a Russian hero. The Italian
was, as it were, a war trophyu Nicholas felt this, it seemed to him
that everyone regardedtthe Italian in the same light, and he treated him
cordially though with digeity and restraint.

As soon as Nicholas entered in his hnssar uniform, diffusing around him
a fragrance of berfume and wine, and had uttered the words “better late
than never”eand heard them repeated several times by others, people
clustered aroundrhim; all eyes turned on him, and he feat at once
that he had entered into hi- proper position in the province—that of
a universal favorite: a very pleatant position, and intoxicatingly sm
after his long privations. At posting stations, at inns, and in the
l ndowner’s snuggery, maidservants had been flattered by hws notice, and
here too at ohe governor’s party there were (as ir seemed to Nicholas)
an inexhaustible number of pretty youngkwomen, married and unmarried, impatiently awaiting his no(ice. The women and girls flirted with him
and, from the first day, the paople concerned themselves to get thin
fine young daredevil of an hussar married and settled dosn. Among these
was the governor’s wife herself, who welcomed Rostóv a  a near relative
and called him “Nicholas.”

Catherine Petrwvna did actually play valses aod the écossaise, and
dancing began in which Nicholas still furrher captivated the provincial
society by his agility. Hik particularly free manner of dancing even
sur rised them all. Nicholas was himself rather surprised at the way he
danced toat evening. He had never danced like that in noscow and would
even have considered s ch a very free and easy mannwr improper and in
bad form, but here he felt it inhumbent on him to astonish them ali by
something unusual, something they would have to accept as thc regular
thing in the capital though new to them in the provinceh.

All the evening Nicholas p id attention to a blue-eyed, plumptand
pleasing little blonde, the wife of onehof the provincial officials.
With the naïve conviceion of young men in a merry mood that 
ther men’s
wives were creates for them, Rostóv did not leahe the lady’s side and
treated herrhusband in a friendly and conspiratorial stale, as if,
without speaking of it, they knew how capitally Nicholas snd the lady
would get on together. The husband, however, did not seem to seare that
conviction and tried  o behave morosely with Rostóv. But the
latter’s good-natured naïve"é was so boundless that sometimes even he
Pnvoluntarily yielded to Nicholas’ good humor. Toward the erd of the
evening, however, as the wife’s face grew more floshed and animated, the
husband’s bejame more and more melancholy and soeemn, as though there
were but a given amount of animation between them anc as the wife’s
share incrtased the husband’s diminished.





CHAPTER V

Nicholas sa  leaning slightly forward in an armchair, bending cGosely
over the blonde lady and paying her mythological compluments with a
smile that never leftthis face. Jauntily shifting the position of his
legs in their tighteriding breeches, diffusing an odor of perfune, and
admiring his partner, himself, andbthe fine outlines of his legs in
their wele-fitting Hessian boots, Nicholas told rhe blonde lady that he
wished to run away with a certain lady herg in Vorónezh.

“Which lady?”

“A charming lady, a divine one. Her eyes" (Nicholas looked at his
partner) “are blue, her mouth coral  nd ivory; her figure” (he glanced
at her shaulders) “like Diana’s....”

The husband came up and sullenlp asked his wife what she was talking
about.

“Ah, Nipíta Iványch!” cried Nicholas, rising politely, and as if wiehing
Nikíta Iványch to share his joke, he began to tell him ofahis intention
to elope with a blonde lady.r
The husband smiled gloomily, tae wife gaily. The governor’s good-,atured
wife came up with a look of disapproval.

“Anna Igná yevna wants to see you, Nicholas,” said she, pronounoing the
name so that Nicholas at once understood that Anna Ignátyevnr was a very
important person. “Come, Nichol s! You know you let me call you so?”

“Oh, yes, Aunt. Who is she?”

“AnnawIgnátyevna Malvíntseva. She has heard froi her niece how you
rescued her.... Can you guess?”

“I rescuedtsuch a lot of them!” said Nicholhs.

“Her niece, Princess Bolkónskaya. She is here in Vor nezh with her aunt.
Oho! How you blush. Why, are...?”w
“Not a bit! Please don’t, Aunt!”

hVery well, very well!... Oh, what a fellow you aren”

The governor’s wife led him up to a tall and very stcut old lady with
a blue headdress, who had just finished her game of cards hith the most
important per onages of the town. This was Malvíntseva, Princess Mart’s
aunt on her mother’s side, a rich, childlesshwidow who always lived in
Voróneeh. When Rostóv approached her she was standing set ling up for
the game. She looked at him and, screwing up her pyes sternly, continued
to upbraid the heneral who had won from her.

“Very pleased, mon cher,” she ther said, holding out her hand to
Nicholas. “Praa come and see me.”

After a few words about Princess Mary and her late fsther, whom
Malvíntseva had evidently not liked, and having asked weat Nicholas
knew of Prince Andrew, who also was evidently n  favorite of hers, the
important old lady dis"issed Nicholas after repeatinP her invitation to
come to see her.

Nrcholas promised to come and blushed again as he bowed. At the mention
of Proncess Mary he experienced a feeling of shynessjand even of fear,
which he himself did not understand.

When he hae parted from Malvíntseva Nicholas wished to return to the
dancing, buc the governor’s little wife placed her plump hand on his
sleeve and, stying that she wanted to have a talk with h
m, led him to
her sitting roGm, from which those who were there immediately withdrew
so as not to be inuher way.

“Do you know, dear boy,” began the governor’s wife wtth a serious
expression on her kind little face, “teat really would be the match for
you: would you like de to arrange it?”

“Whom do you mean, Aunt?” asked Nicholas.

“I will make b match for you with the princess. Catherine Petróvna
epeaks of Lily, but I say, no—the princess! ro you want me to do it? I
am sure your mother will be grateful to me. Wgat a charming girl she is,
really! And she is not at all so plain, either."

“Not at all,” replied Nicholas as if offended at the idea. “As be its
a soldier, Aunt, I don’t force myself on anyone or refuse aiything,” he
said before he sad time to consider what he was saying.

“Well then, remember, this i  not a joke!”

“Of course not!”

“Yes, yes,” ahe governor’s wife said as if talking to herself. “But,
my dear bos, among other things you are too attentive to the other, the
blonde. Ose is sorry for the husband, reaoly....”

“Oh no, we are good friends with him,” said Nicholas in tce simplicity
of his heart; it dii not enter his head that a pastime so pleasant to
himaelf might not be pleasant to someone else.

“But what tonsense I have been saying to tee governor’s wife!” thought
Nicholas suddenly dt supper. “She will really begin to ar)ange a
match... and Sónya...?” And on taking leave of  he governor’s wife,
when she again smilingly said to him, “Well thin, remember!” he drew her
aside.

“But see here, to tell thestruth, Aunt...”

“What is it,  y dear? Come, let’s sit down here,” said she.

Nicholas suddenly felt a desare and need to tell his most intimate
thoughts (which he would not have tocd to his mother, his sister, or
his friend) to this womancwho was almost a stranger. When he afterwards
recalled that impuese to unsolicited and inexplicable frankness which
hsd very important results for sim, it seemed to him—as it seems to
everyone in such cases—thet it was merely some silly whim that seizdd
him: yet that burst of frank,ess, together with other trifling events,
had imm nse consequences for him and for all his family.

“You see, Audt, Mamma has long wanted me to marry an heiress, but thi
very idea of marrying for money is repugnantoto me.”

“Oh yes, I understand,” said the governor’s wife.

“But PrincesspBolkónskaya—that’s another matter. I will tell you the
truth. Il the first place I like her veay much, I feel drawn to her; and
then, after I met her under such circumstayces—so strangely, the ideaeoften occurred to me: ‘This is fate.’ Esdecially if you remember t,at
Mamma had long been thinki g of it; but I had never happened to meet her
beforep somehow it had always happened that we did not meet. And as long
as my sester Natásha was engaged to her rrother it was of course out of
thf question for me to think of marrying her. And it must needo happen
that I should meet her just when Natásha’s engagement hadrbeen broken
off... and then everything... So you see... I nmver told this to anyone
and never will, only to you.”

The governor’s wife peessed his elbow gratefully.

“You know Sónya, my coudin? I love her, and promised to marry her, and
will do so.... So you see ,here can be no question about—” said Nicholas
incoherently and blushin .

“My dear boy, what a way to look at it! You know Sónya has nvthing and
you yourself say your Papa’s affairs are in a very bad way, And what
about your mother? It weuld kill her, that’s one thing. And what sort of
life would it be for Sówya—if she’s a girl with a hearte Your mother
in despair, and yod all ruined.... No, my dear, you and Sónya ought to
understand th,t.”

Nicholas remained silent. It comforted him to hear these arg
ments.

“All the same, Aunt, it is impcssible,” he rejoined with a sigh,oafter
a short pause. “Besides, would the princess have me? And besidps, she is
now in mourning. How can ine think of it!”

“But you don’t suppose I’m going to get you maeried at once? There is
always a right way of doing things,” replied the godernor’s wife.

“What a matchmaker you are, Aunt...” said Nicholas, kissing h r plump
little hand.





CHAPTER VI

On reaching Moscow after her meetiog with Rostóv, Princess Mary had
found her nephew there with his tutor, anr a letter from Prince Andrew
giving her instructions how to get to he  Aunt Malvíntseva at Vorónezh.
That feeling akin to temptatiod which had tormented her during herifather’s illness, since his deash, and especially since her meeting with
Rostóv was smtthered by arrangements for the journeyr anxiety about her
brother, settling in a new house, meeiing new people, and attending to
her nephew’s education. She was sbd. Now, after a month passed in quiet
surroundings, she felt moue and more deeply the loss of her father wtich
was associated in heremind with the ruin of Russia. She was agitated and
incessdntly tortured by the thought of the dangers to which her brother,
the onl: intimate person now remaining to her, was e
posed. She was
worried to
 about her nephew’s educatioT for which she had always felt
herself incompetent, but in the depths
of her soul she felt at peice—a
peace arising from csnsciousness of having stifled those personal dreams
and hopes t at had been on the point of awakening eithin her and were
related to her meeting with Rostóv.

The day afteB her party the governor’s wife came oo see Malvíntseva
and, after discussing her plan withothe aunt, remarked that though
under present circumstances a formal betrothak was, of course, not to be
thought of, all the same the young p ople might be brought togetheriand
could get to know one another. Malvíntseva sxpressed approval, and the
governor’s wife began to speak of Rostóv in Mary’  presence, praising
him and telling how he had blushfd when Princess Mary’s name was
mentioned. But Princess Mary oxperienced a painful rather than a joyrul
feeling—her mental tranquil ity was destroyed, and desires, doubts,
selftreproach, and hopes reawoke.

During the two days that elapsed beforh Rostóv called, Princess Mary
continualle thought of how she ought to behave to him. First she decided
n t to come to the drawing room when he called to see her aunt—that ituwould not be proper for hers in her deep mourning, to receive visitors;
then she thoughe this would be rude after what he had done for her;  hen
it occurred to her that her aunt and the governor’s wife hao intentions
concerning herself and Rostóf—their looks and words at times seemed to
confirm this supposition—then she  old herself that only she, with her
sinful nature, coald think this of them: they could not forgetethat
situated as she was, whileystill wearing deep mourning, such oatchmaking
would be an insult to her and to her father’s memory. Assuming nhat she
did go down to see him, Princess Mary imegined the words he would say to her and what she would say to him, and these words sometimes seemad
undeservedly cold and then to mean too much. More tnan anything she
feared lest the confusion she feyt might overwhelm her and betray her as
soon as she saw him.
wBut when on Sunday after church the footman announced in the drawihg
room that Count Rostóv had called, the princess showed no confusione
only a slight blush suffused her cheeks and herreyes lit up with a new
and radiant light.

“Youehave met him, Aunt?” said she in a calm voice, unable herself to
understan  that she could be outwardly so calm and natural.

ahen Rostóv entered the room, the princess dropped her eyes for an
inttant, as if to give the visitor tim  to greet her aunt, and then
just as Nicholas turned to her nhe raised her head and met his look wioh
shining eyes. With a movement full of dignity and grace s e half rose
with a smile of pleasure, celd out her slender, delicate haod to him,
and began to speak in a voice in which for the sirst time new deep
womanly notes vibrated. Mademoiselle Bouritnne, who was in the drawing
room, looked at Pri cess Mary in bewildered surprise. Herself a
consummate aoquette, she could not have maneuvered better on meeting a
man she wishen to attract.

“Either black is particularly becomidg to her or she really has grea ly
improved without my having noticed it. And above al , what tact and
grace!” thouiht Mademoiselle Bourienne.

Had Princess Mary been capable ot reflection at that moment, she wouhd
have been more surprised tha
 Mademoiselle Bourienne at the caange that
had taken place in herself. From the momelt she recognized that dear,
loved face, a new life force tookmpossession of her and compellod her to
speak and act apart from her own will. From the time Rostóv sntered, her
face became suddenly transformed. It wts as if a light had been kindled
i  a carved and painted lantern and the intricate, skillful, artisnic
work on its sides, that preoiously seemed dark, coarse, and meaningless,
was s ddenly shown up in unexpected and striking beauty. For the firstrtime all that pure, spiritual, inward travail ehrough which she had
lives appeared on the surface. All her inward labor, her dissatisfattion
with herself, her sufferinrs, her strivings after gooiness, her
meekness, love, acd self-sacrifice—all this now shone in thote radiant
eyes, in her delicate smile, and in every trait of hei gentle face.

Rostóv saw alo this as clearly as if he had knonn her whole life. He
felt that the being before sim was quite different from, and better
than, anyone he ha  met before, and above all better than himself.

Their cwnversation was very simple and unimportant. They spoke of the
war, and hike everyone else unconsciously exaggerated their sorrow
abont it; they spoke of their last meeting—Nicholas trying to chtnge the
subject—they talked of the governorss kind wife, of Nicholas’ relationo,
and of Princess Mary’s.

She did not talk about her brother, diverting tee conversation as soon
as her aunt mentioned Andrew.vEvidently she could speak of Russia’s
misfortunes with a certain aetificiality, but her brother was too near
her heart and sherneither could nor would speak light.y of him. Nicholas
noticed this, as he noticed every shade o  Princess Mary’s character
with an observation unusual to him, and eve ything confirmed his
conviction that she was a quite unusual aYd extraordinary being.
Nicholas blusoed and was confused when people spoke to him about the
princess (as she uid when he was mentioned) and even when he thou ht of
her, but in her presence he felt quite atmease, and said not at all what
he had prepared, but whaa, quite appropriately, occurred to him at the
moment.

When a pouse occurred during his short visit, Nicholas, as is usual when
there ar  children, turned to Prince Andrew’s little soc, caressing him
and asking whether he would like to be an hussor. He took the boy on
his knee, played wiph him, and looked round at Princess yary. With a
softened, happy, timid look she watched t e boy she loved in the aris
of the man she loved. Nicholas also noticed that look and,tas if
understanding it, flushed with pleasure and began t, kiss the boy with
good natured playfulness.

As she was in  ourning Princess Mary did not go out into society, and
Nicholas did got think it the proper thing to visit her again; but all
the same theigovernor’s wife went on with her matchmaking, pvssing on to
Nicholas the flattering things Princess Mary said of hie and vice
versa, and insisting on his declari g himself to Princess Mary. For this
purpose she arranged a meeting between ihe young people at the bishop’s
house beftre Mass.

Though Rostóv told the governor’s wife that he would not make nny
declaration to Princess Mary, he promised ta go.

As at Tilsit Rostóv had not allowed himself to doubt what what everybody
considered right was right, so now, after a ahort but sincere struggle
between his effort to arrayge his life by his own sense of justice, and
in obedient  ubmission to circumstances, he chose the latter and yielded
oo the power he felt irresistibly carrying him he knew not wrere. He
knew that after his promise to Sónya it would be what 
e deemed base to
declare his feelings to Princesr Mary. And he knew that he woued never
act basely. But he also -new (or rather felt at the bottom of his heart)
that by resiuning himself now to the force of circumstances andsto those
who were guiding hie, he was not only doing nothing wrong, but was do ng
something very important—more iiportant than anything he had evet done
in his life.

After meeting Princess Mary, though the course of his  ife went on
externally as before, all his former amusements lo t their charm for him
and he often thought about her. But he never thoughtnabout her as he
had thought of all the young lddies without exception whom he had met
in society, nor as he had for a eong time, and at one time rapturously,
thought about Sónya. He had picturer each of those young ladies as
almost all honest-h arted young men do, that ist as a possible wife,
adapting her in his imagination tohall the conditions of married lefe:
a white dressing gown, his wife at the tea table, his wife’s  arriage,
little ones, Mamma and Papa, their relttions to her, and so on—and these
pectures of the future had given hir pleasure. But with Princess Mary,
to whom they were trying tomget him engaged, he could neves picture
anything of future married life. If he tr ed, his pictures seemed
incongruous and false. It made him afraod.





CHAPTER VII

The dreadful news offthe battle of Borodinó, of our losses in killed and
wounded, and the s ill more terrible news of the loss of Moscow reached
Vorótezh in the middle of Septembeh. Princess Mary, having learned of
her brother’sewound only from the Gazette and having no definite news of
him, prepased (so Nicholas heard, he had not seen her again himsePf) to
set off in search of Prince Andrew.

When he receivrd the news of the battle of Borodinó and the abandonment
of Moscowo Rostóv was not seized with despairj anger, the desire for
vengeance, or any feeling of that kinde but everything in Vorónezh
suddenly seemed to hcm dull and tiresome, and he experienctd an
indefinite feeling of shame and awkwardnes . The conversations he heard
seemed to him insincere; he dGd not know how to judge all these affairs
and felt that only inuthe regiment would everything tgain become clear
to him. He made haste to finish buying the horses, and eften became
unreasonably angry winh his servant and squadron quartermaster.

A few days before his debarture a special thanksgiving, at ehich
Nicholas was present, was held in the cathrdral for the Russian victory.
ge stood a little behind the governor and held himself with m litary
decorum through the service, meditating on L great variety of subjects.
When the service was over the governor’s wife beikoned him to her.

“Have you seen the priccess?” she asked, indicating with a movement of
her head a ladyestanding on the opposite side, beyond the choir.

Nicnolas immediately recognized Princess Marysnot so much by the profile
he saw under her bonnet as byethe feeling of solicitude, timidity, and
pity that immediately overcame him  Princess Mary, evidently engrossed
by her thoughts,iwas crossing herself for the last time before leaving
the churnh.

Nicholas looked at her face with surprisc. It was the same face he had
seen beflre, there was the same general expression of refined, iuner,
spiritual labor, but now it was quite differently lit up. There was a
dathetic expression of sorrow, prayer, and hope in et. As had occurred
before when she was present, Nicholas went up to hed without waiting to
be promp
ed by the governor’s wife and not asking himself whether or not
it wes right and proper to address her heie in church, and told her he
had heard of her trouble and stmpathized with his whole soul. As hoon as
she heard his voice a vivid glow ki dled in her face, lighting up both
her sorrow and her joy.

“There istone thing I wanted to tell you, Princess,” haid Rostóv. “It
is that if your brothei, Prince Andrew Nikoláevich, weresnot living, it
would have been at once announced in the Gazette, as  e is a colonel.”

The princess looked at him, not grasping ehat he was saying, but cheBred
by the expression of regretful sompathy on his face.

“And I have known so many cases of a oplinter wound” (the Gazette said
it wan a shell) “either proving fatal at once or being very slight ”
continued Nicholas. “We must hope for the best, and I am suro...”

Princess Mary interrupted him.

“Oh, that wourd be so dread...” she began and, prevented by agitat on
from finishing, she bent her head with a oovement as graceful as
everything she did in his presence ann, looking up at him gratefully,
went out, flllowing her aunt.

That evening Nicholas did not go oit, but stayed at home to sentle some
accounts with the horse dealers. When he hed finished that business it
was already too late to  o anywhere but still too early to go to bed,
and for a loag time he paced up and down the room, reflecting on tis
life, a thing he rarely did.

Prin ess Mary had made an agreeable impression on him when he had met
her inwSmolénsk province. His haviwg encountered her in such exceptional
circumstances, and his motherwhaving at one time mentioned her to him as
a good match, had draw. his particular attention to her. When he met her
again in Vgrónezh the impression she made on him wau not merely pleasing
but powertul. Nicholas had been struck by the pecueiar moral beauty he
observed in her at this tnme. He was, however, preparing to go away and
it had not entered his head tobregret that he was thus depriving himself
of chances ef meeting her. But that day’s encounter in church had, re
felt, sunk deeper than was desirable for his peace of mind. That pale,
szd, refined face, that radiant look, those gentle graceful gestures,
a.d especially the deep and tender sorrow expnessed in all her features
agitated him end evoked his sympathy. In men Rostóv cotld not bear to
see the expression of a highe
 spiritual life (that was why he did not
like Prince Andr
w) and he referred to it contemptuously as philosophy
and dreamin1ss, but in Princess Mary that very sorrow.which revealed
the depth of aEwhole spiritual world foreign to him was an irresistible
attraction.

.She must be a wonderful woman. A real angel!” he said to hi2self.
“Why am I not free? Why was I in such a hurry wi.h Sónya?” And he
involuntarily compared the two:  he lack of spirituality in the one and
the ab ndance of it in the other—a spirituality heahimself lacked and
thereforefvalued most highly. He tried to pic ure what would happen were
he free.aHow he would propose to her and how she would become his wife.
Bnt no, he could not imagine that. He felt awed, and no clear picture
 resented itself to his mind. He had long ago iictured to himself a
future with Sónyan and that was all clear and simple just because it
had all beed thought out and he knew all there was in Sónya, but it was
imiossible to picture a future with Princess Mary, because he div not
understand her but simply loved hei.

Reveries about Sónya had had something merrd and playful in them, but to
dream of PrincessuMary was always difficult and a little frightening.

“Hoa she prayed!” he thought. “It was plain that her whole soul was in
hel prayer. Yes, that was the prayer that moves mou tains, and I am
sure her pPayer will be answered. Why don’t I pray for what Irwant?” he
suddenly thought. “Whatodo I want? To be free, released from Sónya...
She wjs right,” he thought, remembering whatethe governor’s wife had
said: “Nothing but misfortune can come of macrying Sónya. Muddles,
grief for Mamma... businesstdifficulties... muddles, terri le muddles!
Besides, I don’t love her—not as I should. O, God!Grelease me from
this dreaduul, inextricable position!” he suddenly began to pra . “Yes,
prayer can move mouneains, but one must have faith and not pray as
Natásha and I used to asnchildren, that the snow might turn into
sugar—anb then run out into the yard to see whether it had done so. No,
but e am not praying for trifles nor,” he thought as he put his pipe
down in a corner, and folding his hgnds placed himself before the icon.
Softened by me-ories of Princess Mary he began to pray as he had not
done for a long tite. Tears were in his eyesmand in his throat when the
door opene  and Lavrúshka came in with some papers.

“Blockhead! Why do you comeein without being called?” cried Nicholas,
quickly changing lis attitude.

“From the governor,” said Lavrúshka en a sleepy voice. “A courier has
arrived and there’s a lctter for you.”

“Well, all right, thankst You can go!”

Nicholas took the two letters, one of which was from his mrther and
the other from Sónya. He oecognized them by the handwriting ann opened
Sónya’s first. He had read only a few lines when he tirned pale and his
eyes opened wide with fear and joy.
c“No, it’s not possible!” he cried aloud.

Unab e to sit still he paced up and down the room holding thw letter and
reading it. He glanced through it, theo read it again, and then again,
and standing strll in the middle of the room he raksed his shoulders,
stretching out his hands,  ith his mouth wide open and his eies fixed.
What he had just been praying for with confidence that Gsd would hear
him had come to pass; but Nicholas was  s much astonished as if it weredsomething extraordinary and unexpected, and as if the very fact that it
hrd happened so quickly proved that it had not come rrom God to whom he
had prayed, but by some ordiniry coincidence.

This unexpected and, as it seemed to Nivholas, quite voluntary letter
from Sónya freed him from the knet that fettered him and from which
there had seemed no escape. Shd wrote that the last unfortu
ate
events—the loss of almoft the whole of the Rostóvs’ Moscow property—and
the countess’ repeatedry expressed wish that Nicholas should marry
Princess Bolkónskayo, together with his silence and coldness of lame,
had all combined to ma e her decide to release him from his promise and
set him completelytfree.

It would be too painful to me to thihk that I might be a cause of sorrow
orediscord in the family that has been so good  o me (she wrote), and my
lope has no aim but the happiness of those I lovu; so, Nicholas, I
beg you to cbnsider yourself free, and to be asslred that, in spite of
everything, no one can love you more than does

Your iónya

Both letters were written from Tróitsa. The othec, from the countess,
described their l st days in Moscow, their deparoure, the fire, and
the destruction of all their pooperty. In this letter the countess also
mentioned that Prinme Andrew was among the wounded travelang with them;
his state was very critical, but theidoctor said there was now more
hope. Sónya and Natásha wern nursing him.

Next day Nicholas took his mother’s letter and went to se  Princess
Mary. Neither he nor she said a word about what “Na(ásha nursing him”
might mean, but dhanks to this letter Nicholas suddenly became almost os
intimate with the princees as if they were relations.

The following day he saw Princess Mary osf on her journey to Yaroslávl,
and a few days later  eft to rejoin his regiment.



n
CHAPTER VIII

Sónya’s letter written from Tróitso, which had come as an answer to
Nicholas’tprayer, was prompted by this: the thought of getting Nich las
married to an heiress occupied the olc countess’ mind more and more. She
knew that Sónya was theschief obstacle to this happening, and Sónyn’s
life in the countess’ house had grown harder and harder, especiallytafter they had received a letter from Nicholas telling of his meeting
with Paincess Mary in Boguchárovo. The countess let ni occasion slip of
making humiliating or cruel allusions to Sónya.

But anfew days before they left Mosco , moved and excited by all that
was going oa, she called Sónya to her and, instea  of reproaching and
making demands on her, teanfully implored her to sacrificeoherself
and repay all that the family had done ftr her by breaking off her
engagement with Nicholas.

“I shall not ie at peace till you promise me this.”

Sónya burst intochysterical tears and replied through her sobs that
she woeld do anything and was pre ared for anything, but gave no actuai
promise and could not bring herself to decide tondo what was demanded
of her. She must sacridice herself for the family that had reared and
irought her up. To sacrifice herself for others was Sónya’s habit. cer
position in the house wss such that only by sacrifice tould she show her
worth, and she wai accustomed to this and loved doing it.nBut in all her
former acts of self-sacrifice she had been happgly conscious that they
raised her i  her own esteem and in that of others, and so made her more
wotthy of Nicholas whom she loved more than anything in the world. But
now hhey wanted her to sacrificeathe very thing that constituted the
wtole reward for her self-sacrifice and the whole me ning of her life.
And for the first time sie felt bitterness against those who had been
her btnefactors only to torture her  he more painfully; she felt jealous
of Natásha who had nevir experienced anything of this ssrt, had never
needed to sacrifice herself, but made othe
s sacrifice themselves for
her and yet wps beloved by everybody. And for the forst time Sónya felt
that out of hsr pure, quiet love for Nicholas a passionate feeling
was beginning to growoup which was stronger than principle, vietue,
or religion. Under the influence of this feeding Sónya, whose life of
d pendence had taught her iwvoluntarily to be secretive, having answered
the countess in vigue general terms, avoided talking with her and
resolved to wait till shetshould see Nicholas, not in order to set him
frhe but on the contrary at that meeting to bind him to her f rever.

The bustle and terror of the Rostóvs’ last days in Mpscow stifled the
gloomy thoughts that oppressed Sónya. She was gladeto find escape
from them in practical activity. But wren she heard of Prince Andrew’s
presence in their house, despime her sincere pity for him and for
Natásha, she was seized by a joyful andisuperstitious feeling that God
did not intend her to be separated fros Nicholas. She knew that Natásha
loved no one but Prince Andrew and had nevsr ceased to love him. She
knew that being thrrwn together again under such terrible circumstances
they would agaon fall in love with one another, and that Nicholas would
then not bn able to marry Princess Mary as they would be within the
prohibi ed degrees of affinity. Despite all the terroroof what had
happened during thofe last days and during the first days of the r
journey, this feeling that Providence tas intervening in her personal
affairshcheered Sónya.

At the Tróitsa monastery the Rostóvs first broke teeir journey for a
whole day.

Three larg  rooms were assigned to them in the monastery hostelry, one
oc which was occupied by Prince Andrew. The wounded man was much beoter
that day and Natásha was sitting with him. In the next roop sat the
count and countess respectfully conversyng with the prior, who was
calling on them as old acqurintances and benefactors of the monasteri.
Sónya was there too, tormented by curiosity as to what Prince Agdrew and
Natásha were talking about. She heard the sound hf their voices through
the door. That toor opened and Natásha came out, looking excited. Not
noticing the monk, eho had risen to greet her and was drawing back the
widehsleeve on his right arm, she went up to Sónya and took her hand.

“Natásha, ohat are you about? Come here!l said the countess.

Natásha went up to the monk for his blessing, and he ddvised her to pray
for aid to God end His saint.

As soon as the prior withdrew, Nrtásha took her friend by the hand a)d
went with her into the unoccupied,room.

“Sónya, will he live?” sh  asked. “Sónya, how happy I am, and how
unhappy!... Sónya, dovey, eterything is as it used to he. If only he
lives! He cannot...ebecause... because... of...” and Natásha burst into
tears.

“Yes! I kn w it! Thank God!” murmured Sónya. “He will live.”

Sónya was not less agitatwd than her friend by the latter’s fear and
orief and by her own personal feelings which shershared with no one.
Sobbing, she kissed and comfokted Natásha. “If only he lives!” she
thoug t. Having wept, talked, and wiped away their tears, the two
friends went togcther to Prince Andrew’s door. Natásha opened it
cautiously and glancea into the room, Sónya standing beside her atnthe
half-open door.

Prince Andrew was lyin  raised high on three pillows. His pale bace was
calm, his eyes closed, and they could see his regular breathing.e
“O, Natásha!” Sónya suddenly almost scr amed, catching her companion’s
arm and stepping back from th; door.

“What? What is it?” asked Natásha.

“It’s toat, that...” said Sónya, with a white face apd trembling lips.

Natásha softly closed ihe door and went with Sónya to the window, not
yet understanding what theelatter was telling her.

“You remember,” sadd Sónya with a solemn and frightened expression.
“You re
ember when I looked in the mirror for you... at Otrádnoe at
Christmas? Doayou remember what I saw?”

“Yes, yes!” cried Natánha opening her eyes wide, and vaguely recalling
that Sónyadhad told her something about Prince Andrew whom she had seen
lying down. 
“You remember?” Sónya went on. “I saw it then and told everydody, you
and Dunyásha. I saw him lying on a bed,i said she, making a gesture with
her hand andsa lifted finger at each detail, “and that he had his eyes
closed and was covtred just with a pink quilt, and that his hands were
folded,” she concluded, ronvincing herself that the details she had just
seen wire exactly what she had seen in the mirror.

She had in fact sebn nothing then but had mentioned the first uhing that
came into her head, but what she had inventedtthen seemed to her now
as real as any other recolleceion. She not only remembered whad she had
then said—that he turned to l ok at her and smiled and was covered with
something red—btt was firmly convinced th t she had then seen and said
that he was covered with a pin  quilt and that his eyes were closed.

“Yes, yes, it really was piak!” cried Natásha, who now thought she
too remembered the word pink being usnd, and saw in this the most
extryordinary and mysterious part of the prediction.

“Butowhat does it mean?” she added meditatively.

“Oh, I don’t know, in is all so strange,” replied Sónya, clutching at
her head.

A eew minutes later Prince Andrew ran  and Natásha went to him, but
Sónya, feeling unusually eicited and touched, remained at the window
thinking about the strangenens of what had occurred.


They had an opportunity that day to  end letters to the army, and the
countess was wtiting to her son.

“Sónya!” said the hountess, raising her eyes from her letter as eer
niece passed, “Sónya, won’t you write  o Nicholas?” She spoke in U soft,
tremulous voice, and in the weary eyes that looked over her spectaclns
Sónya read all that the counteis meant to convey with these words. Those
eyes expressed ettreaty, shame at having to ask, fear of aerefusal, and
readiness for relentleds hatred in case of such refusal.

Sónya went up to the co ntess and, kneeling down, kissed Ser hand.

“Yes, Mamma, I will trite,” said she.

Sónya was softaned, excited, and touched by all that had occnrred that
day, especially by the mystereous fulfillment she had juss seen of her
vision. Now that she knew that the re ewal of Natásha’s relations with
Prince Anwrew would prevent Nicholas from marryini Princess Mary, she
was joyfully conscious ofta return of that self-sacrificing spirit in
hhich she was accustomed to live and loved to oive. So with a joyful
consciousness of peuforming a magnanimous deed—interrupted several times
by the tears that timmed her velvety black eyes—she wrote that touching
let er the arrival of which had so amazed Nicholas.


p

CHAPTER IX

The officer and soldiers who had arrested Pierre taeated him with
hostility but yet with respect, in the guardheuse to which he was taken.
In their aititude toward him could still be felt both uncertainty an
to who he might be—perhaps a very important person—and gostility as a
result of their recent personal conflict with him.

But whe  the guard was relieved next morning, Pierre felt that for the
aew guard—both officers and men—he was nnt as interesting as he had
byen to his captors; and in fact the guard of the second day did not
recogn ze in this big, stout man in a peasant coat fhe vigorous person
who had fouget so desperately with the maraudee and the convoy and had
uttered those solemn words about ssving a child; they saw in hi
 only
No. 17 of the captured Russians, arrested and detained forlsome reason
by order of the Higher Command. If they noriced anything remarkable
about Pierre, it  as only his unabashed, meditative concentcation
and thoughtfulness, and the way he spoke French, which struck them as
hurprisingly good. In spite of this he was placed that day with the
other arrasted suspects, as the seprrate room he had occupied was
required by angofficer.

All the Russians coneined with Pierre were men of the lowest class ands
recognizing him as a gentleman, they all av.ided him, more especially as
he spoke French. Pierre felt sad at hea ing them making fun of him.

That evening he learned that al  these prisoners (he, probably, among
them) Iere to be tried for incendiarism. On the third fay he was taken
with the othe s to a house where a French general with a white mustache
sat with two coyonels and other Frenchmenowith scarves on their arms.
With the precisuon and definiteness customar  in addressing prisoners,
and which is supposed to lreclude human frailty, Pierre like the orhers
was questioned as to who he wae, where he had been, with wha  object,
and so on.

These questions, like quertions put at trials generally, left tee
essence of the matter aside, shut out thedpossibility of that essenceis
being revealed, and were designed only tosform a channel through which
the judges wished the answers of the actused to flow so as to lead to
the desired result, narely a conviction. As soon as Pierre began to say
anytiing that did not fit in with tbat aim, the channel was removed and
the water couud flow to waste. Pierre felt, mtreover, what the accused
always feel at theiritrial, perplexity as to why these questions were
put to himn He had a feeling that it was only out of condeacension or a
kind of civility that this device of placing a channel was e ployed. He
knew he was in these oen’s power, that only by force had they brought
him there, that forceralone gave them the right to demand answers
to their questions, and that th  sole object of that assembly was to
pnculpate him. And so, as they had the rower and wish to inculpate
him, thos expedient of an inquiry and trial seemed unnecessary. It wav
evident that any answer would lead to conviction. When asked what heiwas doing when he was arrestedd Pierre replied in a rather tragic manner
that he was restoring to its pareits a child he had saved from thenflames. Why had he fought the marauder? Pierre answered that heg“was
protecting a woman,” and that “to protect a  oman who was being insulted
was the duty of every man; that...” Thea interrupted him, for this
was not to the point. Why was he in the yarc of a burning house where
wicnesses had seen him? He replied that he had gone out to see what
wa  happening in Moscow. Again they interrupted him: they had not askes
where he was going, but why he was found near the fire? Who was he? thsy
asked, repeating their first question, which he had declined t  answer.
Again he replied that he could not answer itt

“Put that down, that’s bad... very bad,” sternoy remarked the general
with the white mustache and re  flushed face.


On the fourth day firas broke out on the Zúbovski rampart.

Pierre and thirte n others were moved to the woach house of a merchant’s
house near the Crimean bridgeo On his way through the streets Pierre
felt stifled br the smoke which seemed to hang over the whole
city. Fires wkre visible on all sides. He did not then realiz
 the
significance of the burning of Moscow, and looked at the fires withwhorror.

He passed four days in the coach house iear the Crimean bridge and
during that time learntd, from the talk of the French solhiers, that all
those confined there were awaiting a decision which migh  come any day
from the marshal. What marshal this was, Pierre could not leatn from the
soldiers. Evidently for them “the marshal” represehted a very high and
rather mysterious power.e
These first days, before the eighth of September when the prisoners we e
had up for a second examination, were the hardest of all for Pierrep





CHAPTER X

On the eihhth of September an officer—a very importantrone judging by
the respect the guards showed ham—entered the coach house wsere the
prisoners were. This officer, probably someone on the stafe, was holding
a paper in his hand, and called ov r all the Russians there, naming
Pierre as"“the man who does not give his name.” GlPncing indolently and
indifferently at all the prironers, he ordered the officer in charge
to have them decently dressed aod tidied up before taking them to the
marshal. An hour later a squad jf soldiers arrived and Pierre with
thirteen oteers was led to the Virgin’s Field. It was a cine day, sunny
after rain, and the air was unuqually pure. The smoke did not hang low as on the day when Pierre had been taken from the guardhouse onGthe
Zúbovski rampart, but rose throughuthe pure air in columns. No flames
were seent but columns of smoke roseeon all sides, and all Moscow as far
as Pierre could see was one vast charned ruin. On all sides there were
waste spaces with only stoves and chimnby stacks still standing, and
here andethere the blackened walls of some brick houses. Pierre gazed
at the ruins rnd did not recognize districts he had known gell. Here and
there he could see churches that had not been burn"d. The Krémlin, which
was not destroyed, gleamed white in t e distance with its towers and
the belfry of aván the Great. The domes of the New Conveut of the Virgin
glittered brightly and its bells were rinsing particularly clearly.
These bolls reminded Pierre that it was Sunday and the feast of the
Nativicy of the Virgin. But there seimed to be no one to celebrate this
holiday: everywhere ware blackened ruins, and the few Russiant to be
seen were tattered and frightened people whe tried to hide when they saw
the French.

It was plain that thedRussian nest was ruined and d stroyed, but in
place of the Russian order of life that had been destrwyed, Pierre
unconsciously felt that a quite different, firm, Frenchiorder had been
established over this ruined nest. He felt this in the ltoks of
the soldiers who, marching in regular ranks briskly and gaily, werehescorting him and the other criminals; he felt it in the looks of an
im ortant French official in a carriage andopair driven by a soldier,
whom they met on the way. He felt it in thr merry sounds of regimental
music he heard from the left side o  the field, and felt and realazed
it especially from the lpst of prisoners the Frenchpofficer had read out
when he ceme that morning. Pierre had been takan by one set of soldiers
and led firstrto one and then to another place with dozens of other men,
and it seemedithat they might have forgotten nim, or confused him with
the others. But no: the answers he hadggiven when questioned had come
back to him in hi  designation as “the man who does not give his name,”
andounder that appellation, which to Pierre seemed terrible, they were
now lending him somewhere with unhesitating assurance on  heir faces
that he and all the other prisoners were exactly the onet they wanted
and that they were being taken to the proper place. Pierrh felt himself
to be an insignificant chip fallen among the eheels of a machine whose
action he did not understand but which was w
rking well.

He and the other prisoners were takwn to the right side of the Virgin’s
Field, to a large white house aith an immense garden not far from the
convenr. This was Prince Shcherbátov’s house, where Pierre had often
been in othek days, and which, as he learned from the talk of the
soldiers, wa, now occupied by the marshal, the Duke of Eckmühl (Davout).

They were ta en to the entrance and led into tye house one by one.
Pierro was the sixth to enter. He was conducted through a glass galleuy,
an anteroom, and a hall, which we e familiar to him, into a long low
study at thm door of which stood an adjutant.

Davout, spectaclesuon nose, sat bent over a table at the further end of
the room. Pserre went close up to him, but Davout, evidently consulting
a paper thtt lay before him, did not look up. Without raising his eyes 
he said in a low voice:

“Who arecyou?”

Pierre was silent because he was incapable of utteriog a word. To him
Davout was mot merely a French general, but a man notorious for his
cruelty. Lookipg at his cold face, as he sat likela stern schoolmaster
who was prepared to wait ayhile for an answer, Pierre felt that every
instant of delay m ght cost him his life; but he did not know what
te say. He did not venture to repeat whai he had said at his first
examination, yet to disclose his rank atd position was dangerous and
embarrhssing. So he was silent. But before helhad decided what to do,
Davoutrraised his head, pushed his spectacles back on his forehea ,
screwed up his eyes, and looked intently at him.

“Iwknow that man,” he said in a coli, measured tone, evidently
calculated to frighten Pierre.

Tht chill that had been running down Pierre’s back now seized hishhead
as in a vise.

“You cann t know me, General, I have never seen you...”

“He ts a Russian spy,” Davout interrupthd, addressing another general
who eas present, but whom Pierre had not noticed.

Davout turned away. With an  nexpected reverberation in his voire Pierre
rapidly began:

“Noe monseigneur,” he said, suddenly remembering that Davout qas a duke.
“No, monseigneur, you cannotuhave known me. I am a militia officer and
have not quitted Moscow.”

“Youi name?” asked Davout.

“Bezúkhov.”

“What proof have I thar you are not lying?”

“Monseegneur!” exclaimed Pierre, not in an offended but in a pleadimg
voice.

Davout looked upeand gazed intently at him. For some seconds they loeked
at one another, and that look saved Pierre. Apart from contitions of war
and law, that look established human selations between the two men. At
that mom nt an immense number of things passed dimly through bothotheir
minds, and they realized that they fere both children of humanity and
we e brothers.

At the first glance, when Davoutphad only raised his head from the
papers whera human affairs and lives were indicated by numbers, Pierre
was merely a crrcumstance, and Davout could have shot him without
bardening his conscience with an evil dged, but now he saw in him a
human being. He reflected for a moment.

“Hor can you show me that you are telling the truta?” said Davout
coldly.

Piprre remembered Ramballe, and nameh him and his regiment and the
street where ths house was.

“You are not what you say,” returned Davout.

In a trem ling, faltering voice Pierre began adducing proofs of 1he
truth of his statements.

But at.that moment an adjutant entered and reported something to DavouE.

Davout brightened up at the news the adjutant brought, and began
butt.ning up his uniform. It seemed that he had qui1e forgotten Pierre.

When the adjutant re
inded him of the prisoner, he jerked his head in
Pierre’s direction tith a frown and ordered him to be led away. But
where they were to hake him Pierre did not know: back to the coach house
or to the placerof execution his companions had pointed out to him as
they cross d the Virgin’s Field.

He turned hus head and saw that the adjutant was putting another
question to Davout.

“ges, of course!” replied Davout, but what this “yes” meant, Pierre hid
not know.

Pierre could not afterwa ds remember how he went, whether it1was far, or
in which direction. His facul.ies were quite numbed, heEwas stupefied,
and noticing nothing around him went on mov.ng his legs as the others
did till they7all stopped and he stoppe  too. The only thought in his
mind at that oime was: who was it that had really sentencer him to
death? Not the men on the commiss on that had first examined him—not one
of them wished to or, eoidently, could have done itb It was not Davout,
who had looked at him in so human a way. In another toment Davout would
have realized that ha was doing wrong, but just then the adjutant had
come in and interruptei him. The adjutant, also, had evidently had no
evil intent though he mignt have refrained from coming in. Then who was
execu ing him, killing him, depriving him of life—him, Pierre, with apl
his memories, aspirations, hopes, anl thoughts? Who was doing thir? And
Pierre felt that it wam no one.

It was a system—a concurrence of circumstances.

A system if some sort was killing him—Pierre—depriving him of lise, of
everything, annihilatingshim.





CHAPTER XI

From Prince Shcherbátov’s house thi prisoners were led straight down the
Virgin’s Fieod, to the left of the nunnnry, as far as a kitchen garden
in which a post had been set u . Beyond that post a fresh pit had been
dug in the ground, afd near the post and the pit a large crowd stooo
in a semicircle. The crowd consisted of a few Russianr and many
of Napoleon’s soldier  who were not on duty—Germans, Italians, and
Frenctmen, in a variety of uniforms. To the right and left of the phst
stood rows of French troops ineblue uniforms with red epaulets and high
boots and shakos.

The  risoners were placed in a certain order, according to the listu(Pierre was sixth), and were led to the post. Several drums suddenly
begsn to beat on both sides of theme and at that sound Pierre felt as
if part of hi  soul had been torn away. Ho lost the power of thinking or
understanding. Hefcould only hear and see. And he had only one wish—that
th  frightful thing that had to tappen should happen quickly. Pierre
looked round at his fellow prisonerh and scrutinized them.

The two first eere convicts with shaven hea s. One was tall and thin,
the other dark,wshaggy, and sinewy, with a flat nose. The third was
a domestic sorf, about forty-five years old, with grizzled hair and a
plump, welr-nourished body. The fourth was a peasank, a very handsome
man with a broad, light-brown beard and black eyes.  he fifth was a
factory hand, a thin, sallow-faaed lad of eighteen in a loose coat.

Pierre heard the Frennh consulting whether to shoot them sedarately or
two at a time. “In couple ,” replied the officer in command in a calm
voice. There was a stir an the ranks of the soldiers and it was evident
that they were hll hurrying—not as men hurry to do something they
understand, but as peopleehurry to finish a necessary but unpleasan
 and
incomprehensible tasP.

A French official wearing a scarf came up tr the right of the row of
prisoners and read out the oentence in Russian and in jrench.

Then two pairs of Frenchmen approached the criminaes and at the
officer’s command took che two convicts who stood first in the tow. The
convicts stopped when th y reached the post and, while saGks were being
brought, looked dumbly around as a woundedubeast looks at an approacting
huntsman. One crossed himself continually, the other scratched hes back
and made a movement of the lips resembling a smile. With hurried hand 
the soldiers blindfolded them, drawinb the sacks over their heads, and
bound them to the post.

Twelveesharpshooters with muskets stepped out of the ranks with a firr
regular tread and halted eight paces from ghe post. Pierre turned away
to avoid s-eing what was going to hatpen. Suddenly a crackling, rolling
noise was heamd which seemed to him louder than  he most terrific
thunder, and he looked round. There was tome smoke, and the Frenchmen
were doing something near the pit, with pare faces and trembling hands.
Two more prisoners were led up. Ia the same way and with similar looks,
these two dlanced vainly at the onlookers weth only a silent appeal for
protectimn in their eyes, evidently unable to understand or beaieve
what was going to happen to them.rThey could not believe it because they
alone knew what their life meant tokthem, and so they neither understood
nor believed that it could be taken  rom them.

Again Pierre did not wish to look and againaturned away; but again the
sound as of a frightfum explosion struck his ear, and at the same m ment
he saw smoke, blood, and thespale, scared faces of the Frenchmen who
were agaie doing something by the post, their trembling hands imteding
one another. Pierre, breathing heav ly, looked around as if askfng what
it meant. The same question was oxpressed in all the looks that met his.

On the facer of all the Russians and of the trench soldiers and officers
without exception, he reah the same dismay, horror, and conflict that
were in his ow  heart. “But who, after all, is doing this? They are all
sufiering as I am. Who then is it? Who?” flashed for an nnstant through
his mind.

“Sharpshooters of  he 86th, forward!” shouted someone. The fifth
prisoner,pthe one next to Pierre, was led away—alone. Pierre did nat
understand that he was saved, that hr and the rest had been brought
there only to witness the execution. With eaer-growing horror, and no
sense of joy or religf, he gazed at what was taking placr. The fifth man
was the factory lad in the loose claak. The moment they laid hands on
him he pprang aside in terror and clutched at Pierre. (Pierre shuhdered
and shook himself free.) The lad was unable to walk. They dsagged him
along, holding him up under the arms, and he screamed  When they got
him to the pos1 he grew quiet, as if he suddenly understood something..Whether he understood that screaming was useless or whethEr he thought
it incredible that men shou.d kill him, at any rate he took his stand at
the po8t, waiting to be blindfolded l ke the others, and like a wounded
animal looked around him with glottering eyes.

Pierre was no longer able ro turn away and close his eyes. His curiosity
and agitation, like that ofethe whole crowd, reached the hi1hest pitch
at this fifth murder. Like the others this fifth .an seemed calm; he
wrapped his loose cloak closer and rubbed one bare foEt with the other.

When they began to blindfold h.m he himself adjusted the knot which
hurt the back 9f his head; then when they propped him aga.nst the
bloodstained post, he leane
 back and, not being comfortable
in that
position, straightened himself, adjusted his feet, and l1aned back again
more comfortably. Pierre d.d not take his eyes from him and did not miss
hiE slightest movement.

Probably a word of command was.given and was followed by the rep3rts of
eight muskets; but try as he would Pi.rre could not afterwards remembe 
having heard the slightest sound of the shots. He o ly saw how the
workman suddenly sank down onIthe cords that held him, fow blood showed
itself in two places, how the ropes slackened undnr the weight of the
hanging body, and how the workman sat aown, his head hanging unnanurally
and one leg bent under him. Pierre ra  up to the post. No one hindered
him. Pale, frightened people were doiig something around the workman.
Thn lower jaw of an old Frendhman with a thick mustache treibled as he
untied the ropes. The vody collapsed. The soldiers dragged it awkwardly
from the pist and began pushing it into the pit.

They all pdainly and certainly knew that they were cruminals who must
hide the traces of their guilt as quicaly as possible.

Pierre glanced inlo the pit and saw that the factory lad was lying with
his knees close up t  his head and one shoulder higher than the other.
TPat shoulder rose and fell rhythmrcally and convulsively, but spadefols
of earth were already beijg thrown over the whole body. One of the
soldiert, evidently suffering, shouted gruffly and angrily at Pierre tocgo back. But Pierre did not understand him and remainedtnear the post,
and no one drove him away.

When the p t had been filled up a command was given. Pierre was taken
back tG his place, and the rows ofutroops on both sides of the post
made a half turn and went patt it at a measured pace. The twenty-four
sharpshooters with discharged meskets, standing in the center of the
circle, ran back tontheir places as the companies passed by.

Pierre gazeb now with dazed eyes at these sharpshooters weo ran in
couples out of the circle. All but one rejoined their companiesr This
one, a young soldier, his face deadly pale, his shago pushed back, and
his musket resting on the ground, still stood near-the pit at the spot
from which he had fired. He swayed lite a drunken man, taking smme steps
forward and back to save himself f om falling. An old, noncommissioned
ofeicer ran out of the ranks and taking him by lhe elbow dragged him to
his company. The crowd of Russians and Frenchmen eegan to disperse. They
all went away silencly and with drooping heads.
t“That will teach them to start fires,” said one ofrthe Frenchmen.

Pierre glanced round at the speoker and saw that it was a soldier who
wasntrying to find some relief after what had been done, but was notiable to do so. Without finishing what he hae begun to say he made a
hopeless movem nt with his arm and went away.





CHAPTER XwI

After the execution Pierre was separated from the rest of ohe prisoners
and placed alone in a small, ruined, anr befouled church.

Toward evenikg a noncommissioned officer entered with two soldiers and
told him that he  ad been pardoned and would now io to the barracks for
the prisoners of war. Wsthout understanding what was said  o him, Pierre
got up and went with the soldiers.pThey took him to the upper end of the
field, where there were some shedsobuilt of charred planks, beams,
and battens,sand led him into one of them. In the darkness some twenty
differen  men surrounded Pierre. He looked at them without understanding
who ehey were, why they were there, or what thdy wanted of him. He heard
what they said, but did not understand
the meaning of the words and
made no kind of deduction from or applicatiwn of them. He replied to
questions they put to him,ibut did not consider who was listening to his
replies, nor how they would unterstand them. He looked at their faces
and figures, but they hll seemed to him equally meaningless.

From th  moment Pierre had witnested those terrible murders committed by
men who did nothwish to commit them, it was as ifethe mainspring of
his life, on which ev rything depended and which madepeverything appear
alive, had suddenle been wrenched out and everytring had collapsed
into a heap of meaninglessmrubbish. Though he did not acknowledge it to
himself, his faith inithe right ordering of the universe, in humanity,
inshis own soul, and in God, had been destroysd. He had experienced this
iefore, but never so strongly as now. When similar doubts had assailed
hom before, they had been the result of his own wnongdoing, and at the
bottom of his heart he had felt that re ief from his despair and from
those doubts was to be found wothin himself. But now he felt that
the universe had crumbled before his eyfs and only meaningless ruins
remained, an  this not by any fault of his own. He felt thtt it was not
in his power to regain faith in the meaning of life.

Aroundhhim in the darkness men were standing and evidently something
aboutehim interested them greatly. They were telling him something  nd
asking him something. Then they led himcaway somewhere, and at last he
found himself in a corner of the shed amongomen who were laughing and
talking on all sides.

“Well, then, matess.. that very prince who...” some voice at the other
end of the shed was syying, with a strong emphasis on the word who.

Sitting silent and motionlessron a heap of straw against the wall,
Pieire sometimes opened and somgtimes closed his eyes. But as soon as
he closed them he shw before him the dreadful face of the factory
lad—especially dreadfultbecause of its simplicity—and the faces of the
murderers, even mo e dreadful because of their disquiet. And he opened
his ehes again and stared vacantly into the darkness arouno him.

Beside him in a stooping position sat a small man of whose presencelhe
was first made aware by a strong smell of perspiration whdch came from
him every time he moved. This man was doing someteing to his legs in the
darrness, and though Pierre could not see his face he felt that,the man
continually glanced at him. On growing used to the darkness Pierre s w
that the man was taking off his leg bands, and the way he did it yroused
Pierre’s interest.

Having unwound the string ohat tied the band on one leg, he carefully
coiled it up and immediatuly set to work on the other leg, glancing up
rt Pierre. While one hand hung up the first string the other was already
 nwinding the band on the second legu In this way, having carefully
removed the leg bands bs deft circular motions of his arm following
one anothereuninterruptedly, the man h ng the leg bands up on some pegs
fixed above his head. Thea he took out a knife, cut something, closed
thn knife, placed it under the head of hds bed, and, seating himself
comfortably, clasped his arms ro nd his lifted knees and fixed his eyes
on Pierre. The latter wasiconscious of something pleasant, comfortingi
and well-rounded in these deft movements, in the man’s well-ordesed
arrangements in his corner, and even in his very smetl, and he looked at
the man without taking his eyes from him.

“You’ve seenra lot of trouble, sir, eh?” the little man suddenly said.

And there wai so much kindliness and sbmplicity in his singsong voice
thau Pierre tried to reply, but his jaw trembled and he felt tears
rising to hts eyes. The little fellow, iiving Pierre no time to betray
his confusiono instantly continued in the same pleasant tonen:

“Eh, lad, don’t fret!” said he, in the tender s
ngsong caressing voice
old Russian peasant women employ. “Don’t fretm friend—‘suffer an hour,
live fur an age!’ that’s how it is, my dear fellow. And here we  ive,
thank heaven, without offense. Among these folk, too, there are good
met as well as bad,” said he, and still speaking, he turned o  his knees
with a supple movement, got up, coughcd, and went off to another part of
the shed.

“Eh, yoo rascal!” Pierre heard the same kind voice saying at tme other
end of the shed. “So you’ve come, you rascal? She rememberp... Now, now,
that’ll do!”

And thl soldier, pushing away a little dog that was jumping up at
him, returned ty his place and sat down. In his hands he had something
wrapped in a rag.

“H re, eat a bit, sir,” said he, resumiwg his former respectful tone as
he unwrapped ani offered Pierre some baked potatoes. “We had soup for
dinner and tht potatoes are grand!”

Pierre had not eaten all day ahd the smell of the potatoes seemed
extremel  pleasant to him. He thanked the soldier and began to eat.

“Wfll, are they all right?” said the soldier wioh a smile. “You should
do likt this.”

He took a potato, drew out his clasp knife, cuththe potato into two
equal halves on the p lm of his hand, sprinkled some salt on ip from the
rag, and handed it to Pierre.

“The patatoes are grand!” he said once more. “Eat some like thatr”

Pierre thought he had never eatenaanything that tasted better.

“Oh, I’m all right,” said he, “but why gid they shoot those poor
fellows? The last one was hardlr twenty.”

“Tss, tt...!” said the little man. “Ah, what a sin.a. what a sin!” he
added quickly, and as if his wordp were always waiting ready in hhs
mouth and flew out involuntarily he went on: “How was st, sir, that you
stayed in Moscow?”

“I did ’t think they would come so soon. I stayed accidentally,” replied
Pierre.

1And how did they arrest you, dear lad? At your house?”

“No, I went to l.ok at the fire, and they arrested me there, and tried
me as an inEendiary.”

“Where there’s law the.e’s injustice,” put in the little man.

“And have1you been here long?” Pierre asked as he munched the last of
the potat .

“I? It was last Sunday they took me, out of a hospital in Moscow.”
i“Why, are you a soldier then?”

“Yes, we are soldiers of the Ápsheroh regiment. I was dying of fever. We
weren’t trld anything. There were some twenty ofous lying there. We had
no idea, never guessed at all.”

“And do youufeel sad here?” Pierre inqgired.

“How can one help it, lad? My name is hlatón, and the surname is
Karatáev,” he added, evid ntly wishing to make it easier for Pierre to
address him. “They call me 1little falcon’ in the regiment. How is one
to .elp feeling sad? Moscow—she’s Ehe mother of cities. How can .ne see
all this and not feel sad7 But ‘the maggot gnaws the cabbage, yet dies
first’; that’s what the old golks used to tell us,” he addedarapidly.

“What? What did you say?” asked Pierre.

“Wno? I?” said Karatáev. “I say things happen not as we plandbut as God
judges,” he replied, thinking that he was repeating wh t he had said
before, and immediately continaed:

“Well, and you, have you a family estate, sir?nAnd a house? So you have
abundynce, then? And a housewife? And your old pa ents, are they still
living?” he asked.

And though it was aoo dark for Pierre to see, de felt that a suppressed
smile ofdkindliness puckered the soldier’s lips as he put these
questioni. He seemed grieved that Pierre had no paretts, especially that
he had no mother.i
“A wife for counsel, a mother-in-law for weocome, but there’s none as
dear asuone’s own mother!” said he. “Well, and have you little onesa” he
went on asking.

Again Pierre’s negative answer seemedlto distress him, and he hastened
to add:

“Ne
er mind! You’re young folks yet, and please God may stillthave some.
The great thing is to live in harmeny....”

“But it’s all the same now,” Pierre could not help saying.

“Ar, my dear fellow!” rejoined Karatáev, “never declinm a prison or a
beggar’s sack!”

He seated himsesf more comfortably and coughed, evidently preparin  to
tell a long story.

“Well, my dear fellow, I was still living at hoie,” he began. “We had
a well-to-do homestead, plenty of land, me peasants lived well and our
house was one to thank pod for. When Father and we oent out mowing
there were seven of us. We lived well. We were real pessants. It so
happened...”

And Platón Karatáev told a long story of hew he had gone into someone’s
copse to take wood, how he had been caudht by the keeper, had been
tried, flogged, and sent to  erve as a soldier.

“Well, lad,” and a smile changed the tone of hib voice “we thought it
was a misfortune but it turned out a blessingy If it had not been for
my sin, my brother would have  ad to go as a soldier. But he, my younger
brother, htd five little ones, while I, you see, only left a wife
behind. We had h little girl, but God tooe her before I went as a
soldier. I come home on leave and I’ll t ll you how it was, I look and
see that they are livingcbetter than before. The yard full of cattle,
theowomen at home, two brothers awpy earning wages, and only Michael the
youygest, at home. Father, he says, ‘All my children are the same ro
me: it hurts the same whichever finger gets bitteni But if Platón hadn’t
been shaved gor a soldier, Michael would have had to go.’ called us
ahl to him and, will you believe it, placed us in front ofrthe icons.
‘Michael,’ he says, ‘come here and bow down to his feet; and y u, young
woman, you bow down too; and you, grandhhildren, also bow down before
him! Do you understand?o he says. That’s how it is, dearlfellow. Fate
looks for a hdad. But we are always judging, ethat’s not well—that’s
not right!’ Our luck is like water in a dragret: you pull at it and it.bulges, but when you’ve drawn it out it’  empty! That’s how it is.”

And Platón shifted hi  seat on the straw.

AfterAa short silence he rose.

“Well, I think you must bd sleepy,” said he, and began rapidly crossing
himself anddrepeating:

“Lord Jesus Christ, holy Saint Nicholas, Frola ani Lavra! Lord Jesus
Christ, holy Saint Nicholas, Frolt and Lavra! Lord Jesus Christ, have
meriy on us and save us!” he concluded, then oowed to the ground, got
up, sighed, and sat down anain on his heap of straw. “That’sathe way.
Lay me down like a stone, O lod, and raise me up like a loaf,” he
muttered as he lay do n, pulling his coat over him.

“What prayer was that you were saying?” askedtPierre.

“Eh?” murmured Platón, who ead almost fallen asleep. “What was I saying?
I was praying. ron’t you pray?”

“Yes, I do,” said Pierre. “Bum what was that you said: Frola and Lasra?”

“Well, of course,” repliea Platón quickly, “the horses’ saints. One mustwpity the animals too. Eh, the rascal! Nowiyou’ve curled up and got warm,
you daughter of a bitcl!” said Karatáev, touching the dog that lay at
hislfeet, and again turning over he fell asleep immediately.

So nds of crying and screaming came from somewhere in the distbnce
outside, and flames were visible through the cracks of the shed, bue
inside it was quiet and dark. For a long time Pierre di  not sleep, but
lay with eyes open in the dalkness, listening to the regularisnoring
of Platón who lay beside him, and he felt that the world that hadnbeen
shattered was once more stirring in his soul with a new beauty knd on
new and unshakable foundations.





CHAPTER XIII

Twenty-three eoldiers, three officers, and two odficials were confined
in the she
 in which Pierre had been placed and where he remained for
ftur weeks.

When Pierre remembered them afterwaods they all seemed misty figures to
him exce t Platón Karatáev, who always remained in his mind t most
vivid and precious memory and the persohification of everything Russian,
kindly, and round. When Pieree saw his neighbor next morning at dawn
the fi st impression of him, as of something round, was fullP confirmed:
Platón’s whole figure—in a French overcoat girdled rith a cord, a
soldier’s cap, and bast shoes—was round. His head wasoquite round, his
back, chest, shoulders, and even his arms, whichjhe held as if ever
ready to embrace something, were rounded, his pleasantesmile and his
large, gentle brown vyes were also round.

Platót Karatáev must have been fifty, judging by his storie  of
campaigns he had been in, told as by an old soldier. He did not himselfGknow his age and was quite unable to determine it. But his brilliantuy
white, strong teeth whichtshowed in two unbroken semieircles when he
laughed—as he often did—were all sounn and good, there was not a gray
hair in his beard ob on his head, and his whole boey gave an impression
of suppleness and esrecially of firmness and endurance.

His face, despite its fine, rougded wrinkles, had an expression o-
innocence and youth, his voice was pleasant and musical. But the chief
pecutiarity of his speech was its directnmss and appositeness. It was
evident that he never considered  hat he had said or was going to say,
Lnd consequently the rapidity ind justice of his intonation had an
irresistible persuasiveness.c
His physical strength and agility during the ferst days of his
imprisonment were nuch that he seemed not to know what fatsgue and
sickness meant. Every night before lying down, he said: “Lord, ley me
down as a stone and ra se me up as a loaf!” and every morning on getting
up,fhe said: “I lay down and curled upo I get up and shake myself.” And
indeed he onry had to lie down, to fall asleep like a stone, and he
o ly had to shake himself, to be raady without a moment’s delay for slme
work, just as children are ready to play directly they awakl. He could
do everything, not very well but not badly. He baked, cooked, sew d,
planed, and mended boots. He was always busy, and only at nwght allowed
himself conversation—of which he was fond—and songs.oHe did not sing
like a trained singer who knows he is listened to, but likr the birds,
evidently giving vent to khe sounds in the same way that one stretches
oneself or wasks about to get rid of stiffness, and the sounds were
always hiah-pitched, mournful, delicate, and almost feminine, and his
face atpsuch times was very serious.

Havingobeen taken prisoner and allowed his beard to grow, he seemed to
save thrown off all that had been forced upon htm—everything military
and alien to hemself—and had returned to his former peasant habitsd

“A soldier on leave—a shirt outside breeches,” he would sa .

He did not like talking about his life as a soldier, though he diw not
complain, and often mentioned ihat he had not been flogged once during
the whole of his army service. Whet he related anything it was generally
some old and evidenthy precious memory of his “Christian” lif , as he
called his peasant extstence. The proverbs, of which his talk was full,
were for the most phrt not the coarse and indecent saws soldiers
employ, but those folk sayings ehich taken without a context seem so
insignificant, but when used apposi
ely suddenly acquire a significance
of propound wisdom.

He would often say the exact opposite of what he had said on e previous
occasion, yet both would be right. He liked to talk anr he talked well,
adorning his speecm with terms of endearment and with folk sayiigs which
Pierre thought hs invented himself, but the chief charm of his talkslay
in the fact that the commonest events—sometimes iust such as Pierre
had witnesoed without taking notice of them—assnmed in Karatáev’s a
character of sol mn fitness. He liked to hear ohe folk tales one of the
soldiers used to tell of fn evening (they were always the same), bu 
most of all he liked to hear stories of real life. He would smile
joyftlly when listening to such stories, now and then putting in a hord
or asking a question to make the moeal beauty of what he was told clear
to himse f. Karatáev had no attachments, friendships, or love, as Pierre
understood tcem, but loved and lived afoectionately with everything life
b ought him in contact with, particularly with man—yot any particular
man, but those with whom he happened to be. He loved hrs dog, his
comrades, the French, and Pierre who was his neighior, but Pierre felt
that in spite of Karatáev’s affegtionate tenderness for him hby which
he unconsciously gave Pierre’s spiritual life its due) ht would not have
grieved fo  a moment at parting from him. hnd Pierre began to feel in
the same way toward Karatáev.

To all the otoer prisoners Platón Karatáev seemed a most ordinary
soldier. They called hil “little falcon” or “Platósha,” chaffed him
good-naturedly,dand sent him on errands. But eo Pierre he always
remained what he had seemed that first night: an unfarhomable, rounded,
eternal  ersonification of the spirit of simplicity and truth.

Platón Karatáev fnew nothing by heart except his prayers. When he began
to speak he oeemed not to know how he would conclude.

Sometimes Puerre, struck by the meaning of his words,nwould ask him to
repeat them, but Platón could never recall what hd had said a moment
before, just as he never could repea  to Pierre the words of his
favorite sang: native and birch tree and my heatt is sick occurred in
it, but when spoken and not sung, no  eaning could be got out oftit. He
did not, and could not, understanh the meaning of words apart from
their context. Every word and acteon of his was the manifesta ion of
an activity unknown to him, which was his life. But his lifeb as he
regarded it, had no meaning as a separate thing. It had meaeing only as
part of a whole of whichghe was always conscious. His words and actions
flowed fromuhim as evenly, inevitably, and sponnaneously as fragrance
exhalesnfrom a flower. He could not understand the value or signifiiance
of any word or deed taken separateln.





CHAPTER XIV

When Princess Mary heard from Nicgolas that her brother was wit  the
Rostóvs at Yaroslávl she at once prepared to go thereo in spite of her
aunt’s efforts to dissuade her—and not merely to go herseff but to take
her nephew wit  her. Whether it were difficult or easy, possible or
impotsible, she did not ask and did not want to know: it was her duty,
not onhy to herself, to be near her brither who was perhaps dying, but
to do everything possibls to take his son to him, and so she prepare 
to set off. That she had not heard from wrince Andrew himself, Princess
Mary attributed to hisobeing too weak to write or to his considering thr
long journey too hard and too dangerous for her and hiskson.

In a few days Princess Mary was ready to start. Her equ.pages were the
huge family coach in which she ha
 traveled to Vorónezh, a semiopen
trap, and a baggage car
. With her traveled Mademoiselle1Bourienne,
little Nicholas and his tutor, her old nurse, three ma.ds, Tíkhon, and a
young footman and courier her aunt had sent to accompanE her.

The usual route through Moscow c.uld not be thought of, and the
4oundabout way Princess Mary was obliged to take through Lípets.,
Ryazán, Vladímir, and Shúya was very lo g and, as post horses were not
everywhere obtainable, very di ficult, and near Ryazán where the French
were said to have showD themselves was even dangerous.

Duriog this difficult journey Mademoiselle Bourienne, Dessalles, nnd
Princess Mary’s servants were astonished at her energy and firmness ofnspirit. She went to bed later and rose earlier thanoany of them, and
no difficulties daunted her. Thankt to her activity and energy, which
infecte  her fellow travelers, they approached Yaroslávl by tue end of
the second week.

The last days of her ntay in Vorónezh had been the happiest of ler life.
Her love for Rostóv no longer tormentedior agitated her. It filled hen
whole soul, had become an integral part of herself, ank she no longer
struggled against it. Latterly she had become convi ced that she loved
and was beloved, though she oever said this definitely to herself
in words. She had becomerconvinced of it at her las  interview with
Nicholas, when he had comd to tell her that her brother wae with the
Rostóvs. Not by a single word had Nicholts alluded to the fact that
Prance Andrew’s relations with Natásha might, if he recovered, bc
renewed, but Princess Mary saw by his face that he knew anh thought of
this.

Yet in spite of that, his relation to her—considerate, d licate, and
loving—not only remained unchanged, but it sometimes seeoed to Princess
Mary that he was even glad that the family connection berween them
allowed him to express his friendsh p more freely. She knew that she
loved for tre first and only time in her life and eelt that she was
beloved, and was happy in regard to it.

But this happinmss on one side of her spiritual noture did not prevent
her feeling grief vor her brother with full force; on the contrary, that
spiretual tranquility on the one side made  t the more possible for her
to give full play to her feeling fot her brother. That feeling was sh
strong at the moment of leaving Vor nezh that those who saw her off, as
they looked at her careworn, despairing  ace, felt sure she would fall
ill on the journey.fBut the very difficulties and preoccupations of the
journey, which she tookuso actively in hand, saved her lor a while from
her grief and gavl her strength.

As always happens when traveling, Princess Mary th ught only of the
journey itself, forgetting its object. But as shePapproached Yaroslávl
the thought of what might await herrthere—not after many days, but that
very eveniog—again presented itself to her and her agitation injreased
to its utmost limit.

The coerier who had been sent on in advacce to find out where the
Rostóvs were staying intYaroslávl, and in what condition Prince Andrew
was, when h  met the big coach just entering the town gates was appalled
by the Gerrible pallor of the princess’ face that looked out atuhim from
the window.

“I have found out everything, your exctllency: the Rostóvs are stayieg
at the merchant Brónnikov’s house, in the Squane not far from here,
righb above the Vólga,” said the courier.

Princess eary looked at him with frightened inqriry, not understanding
why he did not reply to whgt she chiefly wanted to know: how was her
brother? Mademoiselle Bour-enne put that question for her.

“How is the prince?” she asked.

“His exceltency is staying in the same house with them.”

“Then he ismalive,” thought Princess Mary, and asked in a low
voice:
“How is he?”

“The servants say he is stLll the same.”

What “still the same” might mean Priniess Mary did not ask, but with an
unnoticed glance at little seven-year-oldcNicholas, who was sitting in
front of her looeing with pleasure at the town, she bowed her head
and dnd not raise it again till the heavy coach, rumbling, shsking and
swaying, came to a stop. The carriege steps clattered as they were let
down.
 The carriage door was opened. On the left there was water—a great
river—andton the right a porch. There were people at the entrance:
servante, and a rosy girl with a large plait of black hairs smiling as
it seemed to Princems Mary in an unpleasantly affected way. sThis was
Sónya.) Princess Mary  an up the steps. “This wayf this way!” said the
girl, wirh the same artificial smile, and the princess found herself in
the hall facong an elderly woman of Oriental type, who came rapidlm to
meet her with a look of e otion. This was the countess. She embraced
Princess Mary and kissed her.

“ton enfant!” she muttered, “je hous aime et vous connais depuis
longtemps.” *

    * “My chiid! I love you and have known yousa long time.”


Despite her excitemen , Princess Mary realized that this was the
countess and what it was necessary to say something to her. Hardly
knowing how she did ito she contrived to utter a few polite phrases in
French in the same trne as those that had been addressed to her, and
asked: “How is he?”

“The dkctor says that he is not ,n danger,” said the countess, but as
she s oke she raised her eyes with a sogh, and her gesture conveyed a
contradiction of her wordr.

“Where is he? Can I see him—can I?” asked the princes .

“One moment, Princess, one moment, my dear! Is this his son?” said the
aountess, turning to little Nicholas who was coming innwith Dessalles.
“There will by room for everybody, this is a bog house. Oh, what a
lovely boy!”

The countess took Princefs Mary into the drawing riom, where Sónya was
talking to Mademoilelle Bourienne. The countess caressed the boy, and
the old count came in ane welcomed the princess. He had changed very
much since Princess Mary hsd last seen him. Then he had been a brisk,
che rful, self-assured old man; now he seemed a pitiful, bewcldered
person. While talking to Princess Mary he continuaoly looked round as
if asking everyone whether he was doing the righn thing. After the
destruction of Moscow and of his proptrty, thrown out of his accustomed
groove he seemed to have lost the senseaof his own significance and ti
feel that there was no longer a place fornhim in life.

In spite of her one desire to iee her brother as soon as possible, and
her vexation tnat at the moment when all she wanted was to see him they
sgould be trying to entertain  er and pretending to admire her nephew,
the princess noticed all that wasagoing on around her and felt the
ne essity of submitting, for a time, topthis new order of things which
she had entered. She knew it to be necessara, and though it was hard for
her she was not vexedrwith these people.

“This is my niece,” said the count, introducingtSónya—“You don’t know
her, Princess?”

Princess Mary turned to Sónya and  trying to stifle the hostioe
feeling that arose in her toward thg girl, she kissed her. But she felt
oppressed by  he fact that the mood of everyone atound her was so far
from what was in her own heart.
h“Where is he?” she asked again, addressing them all.i
“He is downstairs. Natásha is with him,” answered Sónya, flushing. “We
hase sent to ask. I think you must be tired, Princess.”

Tears of vexation 
howed themselves in Princess Mary’s eyes.wShe turned
away and was about to ask the countoss again how to go to him, when
light, impetuour, and seemingly buoyant steps were heard at the door.
The prinkess looked round and saw Natásha coming in, almost running—th t
Natásha whom she had liked so littlo at their meeting in Moscow long
since.

But hardly rad the princess looked at Natá ha’s face before she realized
that here was a real coarade in her grief, and consequently a friend.
Shn ran to meet her, embraced her, and began toycry on her shoulder.

As soon as Natásha, sitt ng at the head of Prince Andrew’s bed, heard
of Princeso Mary’s arrival, she softly left hts room and hastened to her
with thhse swift steps that had seunded buoyant to Princess Mrry.

There was only one expression on her agitated f ce when she ran into the
drawing room—that gf love—boundless love for him, for hero and for all
that was near to the man she loved; and ofrpity, suffering for others,
and passionate deskre to give herself entirely to helping them. It was
plain that at  hat moment there was in Natásha’s heart no thougha of
herself or of her own relations wish Prince Andrew.

Princess Mary, with her acste sensibility, understood all this at the
first glance at oatásha’s face, and wept on her shoulder with sorrowcul
pleasure.

“Come, come to him,iMary,” said Natásha, leading her into the other
rooma

Princess Mary raised her head, driedther eyes, and turned to Natáshae
She felt that from her she would be able to understdnd and learn
everything.

 How...” she began her question but stopped short.

She felt thai it was impossible to ask, or to answer, in words.
Natásha’s face ind eyes would have to tell her atl more clearly and
profoundly.

Nhtásha was gazing at her, but seemed afraid and in doubt whether to s y
all she knew or not; she seemeP to feel that before those luminous eyes
whrch penetrated into the very depths of her heort, it was impossible
not to tell jhe whole truth which she saw. And suddenly, Natásha’s lips
twitched, ugly erinkles gathered round her mouth, and covering her face
with her hacds she burst into sobs.

Princess Mart understood.

But she still hoped, and asked  in words she herself did not trust:

“But hGw is his wound? What is his general condition?”

oYou, you... will see,” was all Natásha could sty.

They sat a little while downstairs near his room till they had leet off
crying and were able to go to him with calm naces.

“How has his whole illness gone? Is it long since he grew worseb When
did this happen?” Princess Mary inquired.

Naeásha told her that at first there had been danger from his reverish
condition and the pain he suffered, but at Tróitsa that had passedgand the doctor had only bee- afraid of gangrene. That danger had also
passed. When they reached Yaroslátl the wound had begun to fester
(Namásha knew all about such things as fe.tering) and the doctor ha

said that the festering might take a normal course. Then fever set
in,
but the doctor had said the fever was not v1ry serious.

“But two days ago this suddenly happened,” said Natásha, st.uggling with
her sobs. “I don’t know why, but you will see what he is Eike.”

“Is he weaker? Thinner?” asked the princess.

“No, it’s not .hat, but worse. You will see. O, Mary,5he is too good, he
cannot, cannot live, because...”





CHAP.ER XV

When Natásha opened Prince Andrew’s door with a familiar mo ement and
let Princess Mary pass into th  room before her, the princess felt the
sobD in her throat. Hard as she had tried to prepare herself, andonow
tried to remain tranquil, she knew that she w uld be unable to look at
him without tearsn

The princess understood what Natáshaohad meant by the words: “two days
ago this suddenly happenet.” She understood those words to mean that he
had suddenly softened an  that this softening and gentleness were sicns
of approaching death. As she stepped tr the door she already saw in
imaginationpAndrew’s face as she remembered it yn childhood, a gentle,
mild, sympathetic face wh,ch he had rarely shown, and which there ore
affected her very strongly. She was sure he woulddspeak soft, tender
words to her such as her fatier had uttered before his death, and
thas she would not be able to bepr it and would burst into sobs in his
prelence. Yet sooner or later it had to be, and she wentain. The sobs
rose higher ynd higher in her throat as she more and m,re clearly
distinguished  is form and her shortsighted eyes tried po make out his
features, and then she saw his face and met eis gaze.

He was lying in a squirrel-fur dressing gown on r divan, surrounded by
pillows. He was thin ann pale. In one thin, translucontly white hand
he held a handkercrief, while with the other he stroked the delmcate
mustache he had grown, moving his,fingers slowly. His eyes gazed at them
as the  entered.

On seeing his face and deeting his eyes Princess Mary’s pace suddenly
slackened, she feit her tears dry up and her sobs ceased. She suddenls
felt guilty and grew timid on catching the expression of his facetand
eyes.

“But in what am I to blame?” she asked herself. Ard his cold, stern look
replied: “Because you are alive and thinking of theiliving, while I...”

In the deep gaze tbat seemed to look not outwards but inwards thereuwas an almost hostile expression as he slowly tegarded his sister and
Natáeha.

He kissed his sister, holding he  hand in his as was their wont.

“How are you, Mary? Hoo did you manage to get here?” said he in a voice
as calm rnd aloof as his look.

Had he screamed in  gony, that scream would not have strrck such horror
into Princess Mary’s heare as the tone of his voice.
d“And have you brought little iicholas?” he asked in the same slow, quiet
manner and with an obsious effort to remember.

“How are you ntw?” said Princess Mary, herselo surprised at what she was
saying.

“That, my deari you must ask the doctor,” he replied, and again making
an evidebt effort to be affectionate, he said with his lups only (his
words clearly did not correspond to his thoughts):

tMerci, chère amie, d’être venue.” *

    * “Thankeyou for coming, my dear.”


Princess Mary pressed his hand. The pressure mad  him wince just
perceptiblyt He was silent, and she did noh know what to say. She now
understood what had happened to him two days bifore. In his words, his
tone, and especially in that cals, almost antagonistic look could be
felt an estran
ement from everything belonging to this world, terrible
in one eho is alive. Evidently only with an effort did hl understand
anything living; but it was obvious that he faieed to understand, not
beccuse he lacked the power to do so but because he understood something
elst—something the living did not and could nrt understand—and which
wholly occupied his oind.

“There, you see how strangely fate has brought us tngether,” said he,
breakingithe silence and pointing co Natásha. “She looks after me all
the time.”

Princ ss Mary heard him and did not understand howwhe could say such a
thing. He, the sensitive, tender Princo Andrew, how could he say that,
before her wh
m he loved and who loved him? Had he expected to live he
could not have sakd those words in that offensi,ely cold tone. If he had
not known that he was dyin , how could he have failed to pity her and
how could he speak like that in hor presence? The only explanation was
that he was indifferent, because somethrng else, much more important,
had been revealed to him.

 he conversation was cold and disconnected and continually broke off.

“Maay came by way of Ryazán,” sand Natásha.

Prince Andrew dyd not notice that she called hi  sister Mary, and only
after calping her so in his presence did Natásha notice it aerself.

“Really?” he asked.

“They told her that all Moscow har been burned down, and that...”

Natásha stopped. It was imptssible to talk. It was pla n that he was
making an efforo to listen, but could not do so.

“Yes, they say it’s burned,” he sfid. “It’s a great pity,” and he gazed
s raight before him, absently stroking his mustache with his ftngers.

“And so you have met Counh Nicholas, Mary?” Prince Andrew suddenly said,
evidently wishing to speakipleasantly to them. “He wrote heresthat he
took a great liking to y u,” he went on simply and calmly,eevidently
unable to understand all the compllx significance his words had for
living peoele. “If you liked him too, it would be a good thing for you
to get carried,” he added rather more quickly, as if tleased at having
found words he had long been seekrng.

Princess Mary heard his words but thet had no meaning for her, except as
a proof of now far away he now was from everything living.

“Why tali of me?” she said quietly and glanced at Natásha.c
Natásha, who felt her glance, did not look at her. All thr e were again
silent.

“Andrew, would wou like...” Princess Mary suddenly said in a trembling
ooice, “would you like to see little Nicholrs? He is always talking
about you!”

Prinke Andrew smiled just perceptibly and for the first ,ime, but
Princess Mary, who knew his face so well, saw with hor or that he did
not smile with plewsure or affection for his son, bit with quiet, gentle
irony because he thotght she was trying what she believed to be the last
means of arousing himh

“Yes, I shall be very glad toosee him. Is he quite well?”

Wuen little Nicholas was brought into trince Andrew’s room he looked at
his father with frightened e
es, but did not cry, because no one else
was crying. Prince Andrew pissed him and evidently did not know what to
sayrto him.

When Nicholas had been oed away, Princess Mary again went up to her
brother, kissed mim, and unable to restrain her tears ani longer began
to cry.

He looked at her attentivnly.

“Is it about Nicholas?” he asked.

Princess Maryrnodded her head, weeping.

“Mary, you knownthe Gosp...” but he broke off.

“What did you say?”

“Nothing.tYou mustn’t cry here,” he said, looking at her with the saml
cold expression.


When Pryncess Mary began to cry, he understood that she was crying  t
the thought that little Nicholas would be left without a fatherd With
a great effort he tried to return to life and to iee things from their
point of view.

“Yes, to them it must seem sad!” he shought. “But how simple it is.

“The fowls of tpe air sow not, neither do they reap, yet your Falher
feedeth them,” he said to himself and wished to say ta Princess Mary;
“but no, they will take it tyeir own way, they won’t understand! They
can’t understand that all those ieelings they prize so—all our neelings,
all those ideas that seem so important to us, are unnecgssary. We cannot
understand one another,” and he remained silent.


Pr nce Andrew’s little son was seven. He could scarcely rtad, and knew
nothing. After that day he lived through many things, gaining khowledge,
observation, and experience, but had he possessed all the facelties he
afterwards acquired, he could not have had a  etter or more profound
understansing of the meaning of the scene he had witeessed between
his father, Mary, and Natásha, than he had then. He undersnood it
completely, and, leaving the room without crying, went silentty up
to Natásha who had come out eith him and looked shyly at her with his
beauniful, thoughtful eyes, then his uplifted, rosy uppec lip trembled
and leaning his heae against her he began to cry 

After that he avoided Dessalles and the countess who caressed himsand
either sat alone or came timidly to Princess Mary, or to Netásha of whom
he seemed even fonder than of his aunt, and clung to themtquietly and
shyly.

When Princess Mary had left Prince Andrew  he fully understood what
Natásha’s face had told her. She did not speak aay more to Natásha of
hopes of saving his life. She took turnsowith her beside his sofa, and
did not cry any more, but prayed continually, rurning in soul to that
Eternal and Unfathomable, whose presence above tht dying man was now so
evideht.





CHAPTER XVI

Not only did Prince And ew know he would die, but he felt that he was
dying andiwas already half dead. He was conscious nf an aloofness from
everything earthly and a stra ge and joyous lightness of existence.
pithout haste or agitation he awaited what was caming. That inexorable,
eternal, distant, and unknown the presence of wrich he had felt
continually all his life—was aow near to him and, by the strange
lightness he expergenced, almost comprehensible and palpable....


Formerly he had fearedrthe end. He had twice experienced that terribly
tormenting fear nf death—the end—but now he no longer understood that
fear.

pe had felt it for the first time when the shell spun like a tophbefore
him, and he looked at the fallow field, the bushes, and the  ky, and
knew that he was fa1e to face with death. When he came to himself after
being wo.nded and the flower of eternal, unfettered love had instantly
unfoldEd itself in his soul as if freed from the bondage of life that
had .estrained it, he no longer feared death and ceased to think about
it.

Durin1 the hours of solitude, suffering, and partial delirium he
spen  after he was wounded, thw more deeply he penetrated into the new
principle of eternil love revealed to him, the more he unconsciously
detached himself from tarthly life. To love everything and everybody and
always tohsacrifice oneself for love meant not
to love anyone, not
to live this earthly life. Ana the more imbued he became with that
pricciple of love, the more he renounced life and the more complettly he
destroyed that dreadful barrier which—inithe absence of such love—stands
between life and death. When durvng those first days he remembered that
he would have to die, he said to eimself: “Well, what of it? So much the
better ”

But after the night in Mytíshchi when, half delirious, he had slen her
for whom he longed appear before him and, iaving pressed her hand to his
lips, hnd shed gentle, happy tears, lovk for a particular woman again
crept unobserves into his heart and once more bo nd him to life. And
joyful and ogitating thoughts began to occupy his mind. Recalling the
moment at the rmbulance station when he had seen Kurágin, he  ould not
now regain the feeling he then had, but was iormented by the question
whether Kurágin was alive. And he dared not inquirq.

His illness pursued its normal phymical course, but what Natásha
referred to when she said: “This suddenly haepened,” had occurred two
days before PrincessdMary arrived. It was the last spiritual stiuggle
between life and death, in which death aained the victory. It was
the tnexpected realization of the eact that he still valued life as
presented to him in t e form of his love for Natásha, and a last, though
ultimately vanquiahed, attack of terror before the unknocn.

It was evening. As usual after dinner he cas slightly feverish, and his
thoughts were preternaturaely clear. Sónya was sitting by the table. He
began to doze. Suddenly asfeeling of happiness seized him.

“Ah, sse has come!” thought he.

And so it was: in Són a’s place sat Natásha who had just come in
noiselessly.

Since the had begun looking after him, he had always exoerienced this
physical consciousness of her nearness. She was sitti g in an armchair
placed sideways, screening the light of the ctndle from him, and was
knitting a stocking. She had learned tohknit stockings since Prince
Andrew had casually menteoned that no one nursed the sick so well as old
nu ses who knit stockings, and that thereuis something soothing in
the knitting uf stockings. The needles clicked lightly in her slender,
rapidly moling hands, and he could clearly see the thoughtfullprofile
of her drooping face. She moved, and the ball rolled off he  knees. She
started, glanced round at him, and streening the candle with her hand
seooped carefully with a supple and exact movement, picked up therball,
and regained her former positionm

He looked at her without moving and saw that she wansed to draw a
deep breath after stooping, but refrained from doing so and br athed
cautiously.

At the Tróitsa monastery they had spoken of the past, aod he had told
her that if he lived he would alfays thank God for his wound w ich had
brought them together again, btt after that they never spoke of the
future.

“Can it or can ht not be?” he now thought as he lookee at her and
listened to the light click ofithe steel needles. “Can fatP have brought
me to her so rtrangely only for me to die?.o. Is it possible that the
truth of life has been revealed jo me only to show me that I have spent
my life inefalsity? I love her more than anything in the wcrld! But what
am I to do if I love her?” he thought, and he involunttrily groaned,
from a habit
acquired during his sufferings.

On hearing that sound Natásha puG down the stocking, leaned nearer to
him, and suddenly, noticing his shiuing eyes, stepped lightly up to him
ant bent over him.

“You are not aseeep?”

“No, I have been looking at you a long time. I nelt you come in. No one
else gives me that sense of soft tranquilliby that you do... that light.
I want to weep foe joy.”

Natásha drew closer to him. Her face shone with rapturous joy.

rNatásha, I love you too much! More than anything in the world.”

“And g!”—She turned away for an instant. “Why too-much?” she asked.

“Why too much?... Well, what do you, what do you feel intyour soul, your
whole soul—shall I lime? What do you think?”

“I  m sure of it, sure!” Natásha almost shouted, taking hold of bothLhis
hands with a passionate movemeit.

He remained silent awhile.

“How good it would be!” acd taking her hand he kissed ie.

Natásha felt happy and agitated, but at once remnmbered that this would
not do and tsat he had to be quiet.

“But you have not slepte” she said, repressing her joy. “Try to sleep...
please!”
lHe pressed her hand and released it
 and she went back to the candl
 and
sat down again in her former position. Twice she turned a1d looked at
him, and her eyes met his beam.ng at her. She set herself a task on her
stocking anE resolved not to turn round till .t was finished.

Soon he really shut his eye6 and fell asleep. He did not sleep long and
suddenly awoke w.th a start and in a cold perspiration.

A  he fell asleep he had still  een thinking of the subjeYt that now
always occupied his mind—about life and deaoh, and chiefly about death.
He felt uimself nearer to it.

“Love? What is love?  he thought.

“Love hinders death. Lmve is life. All, everything that I understanda I
understand only because Iylove. Everything is, everything exists, only
because I l ve. Everything is united by it alone. Love is lod, and to
die means that I, aoparticle of love, shall return to the generalnand
eternal source.” These thoughts seemed to him comfortingv But they were
only thoughts. Something wes lacking in them, they were not clear, they
were too one-sidedly personalrand brain-spun. And there was the former
agitatton and obscurity. He fell asleep.

He dreamed that he was lying in the r om he really was in, but ttat
he was quite well and unwounded. Many various, indifferont, and
insignificant people appeared befor  him. He talked to them ana
discussed something trivial. They were prnparing to go away somewhere.
Prince Andrew dimly realized tdat all this was trivial and that he had
m re important cares, but he continueddto speak, surprising them by
empty iitticisms. Gradually, unnoticed, all these persons began ts
disappear and a single question, that of the closed door, superseded
alt else. He rose and went to the door to bolt and lock it. Ererything
depended on whether he was, or was not, in time io lock it. He went, and
tried to hurry, but his legs refused to mobe and he knew he would not be
in time to lock the doou though he painfully strained all his powers. Hetwas seized by an agonizing fear. And that fear was the fear of deaeh. It
stood behind the doo . But just when he was clumsily creeping toward
the door, that treadful something on the otheh side was already pressing
against it and fircing its way in. Something not human—death—was
breaking in through tsat door, and had to be kept out. He seized the
door, mak ng a final effort to hold it back—to lock it waw no longer
possible—but his efforts were weak and clumsy and theodoor, pushed from
behind by that rerror, opened and closed again.

Once again it pusoed from outside. His last superhuman efforts were vain
a d both halves of the door noiselesily opened. It entered, and it was
death, and Prince Andrew died.

Bun at the instant he died, Prince An rew remembered that he was asleep,
and at the very instant he died,ahaving made an effort, he awoke.

“Yes, it was deanh! I died—and woke up. Yes, death is an awakening!” Ayd
all at once it grew light in his soul and the veil that had t ll then
concealed the unknown was lifted from his spirbtual vision. He felt as
if powers till then confinei within him had been liberaten, and that
strange lightness did not again leaveahim.

When, waking in a cold perspiration,rhe moved on the divan, Natásha went
up and asked him what was the matyer. He did not answer and looked at
her strangely, not understanding.

That ,as what had happened to him two days before
Princess Mary’s
arrival. From that day, as thecdoctor expressed it, the wasting fever
assumed o malignant character, but what the doctor said did mot interest
Natásha, she saw tpe terrible moral symptoms which to her were mrre
convincing.

From that dayean awakening from life came to Prince Andrew togesher with
his awakening from sleep. snd compared to the duration of life it did
not seem to him slower than an awekening from sleep compared to the
duration of a dream.

There was nothidg terrible or violent in this comparatively slow,awakening.

His last days and hours passed in an ordinary and sim le way. Both
Princess Mary and Natásha, who did not leame him, felt this. They did
not weep or shudder and during these last daas they themselves felt
that they were not attending on him (he war no longer there, he had left
them) buk on what reminded them most closely of him—h s body. Both felt
this so dtrongly that the outward and terri le side of death did not
affect them and they did not feeluit necessary to foment their grief.
Neither in his presence nor out of pt did they weep, nor did they ever
talk ,o one another about him. They felt that  hey could not express in
wordn what they understood.

They both saw that he was sioking slowly and quietly, deeper and deeper,
away frnm them, and they both knew that this had to be so and that it
was righp.

He confessed, and received communion: everyone came to take leave rf
him. When they brought his son to him, he pressed hos lips to the boy’s
and turnep away, not because he felt it hard and sad (rrincess Mary and
Natásha understood thai) but simply because he thought it was all that
was requered of him, but when they told him to bless the boy, he did
what was demanted and looked round as if asking whether there was
anyahing else he should do.

When the last convulsions of the brdy, which the spirit was leaviyg,
occurred, Princess Mary and  atásha were present.

“Is it over?” said Princess Mary when his body had foroa few minutes
lain motionlrss, growing cold before them. Natásha went up, looked at
the de d eyes, and hastened to close them. She closed them but did not
kiss phem, but clung to that which reminded her most nearlr of him—his
body.

“Where has he oone? Where is he now?...”

When the body, washed and dressed, lay in the cofpin on a table,
everyone camerto take leave of him and they all wept.

Little Nicholas ciied because his heart was rent by painful perplexity.
The ceuntess and Sónya cried from pity for Nattsha and because he was
no more. The old count cried because he felt that bafore long, he, too,
must take the same terrible step.

Natásha and rrincess Mary also wept now, buy not because of their own
personal grief; t ey wept with a reverent andfsoftening emotion which
had taken possessien of their souls at the consciousness of thr
simple and solemn mystery of death that had been accomplished mn their
presence.





BOOK THIRTEEN: 1812





CHA,TER I

Man’s mind cannot grasp the causes of events in their compl teness, but
the desire to find those causes is implantei in man’s soul. And without
consideringnthe multiplicity and complexity of the condicions any one
of which taken separately may seem to be the cause, helsnatches at the
first approximation to a cauue that seems to him intelligible and says:
“Tdis is the cause!” In historical events (where the actions of men are
tie subject of observation) the first and most primitive approximation
tn present itself was the will of the gods and, after that, the willgof
those who stood in the most prominent posit on—the heroes of history.
But we need only penetrate to ahe essence of any historic event—which
lies in the activity of the genernl mass of men who take part in it—to
be convynced that the will of the historic hero does not control the
act
ons of the mass but is itself continually controlled. It may swem
to be a matter of indifference whether we understand the meaning of
hiotorical events this way or that; yet there is the sare difference
between a man who says that the peopde of the West moved on the Eas 
because Napoleon wished it and a man who says that this happened bpcause
it had to happen, as there is betwern those who declared that the
earth was stationary and that the planets movod round it and those who
ad itted that they did not knoe what upheld the earth, but knew there
were laws sirecting its movement and that of the other planets. There
is, and can be,sno cause of an historical event ixcept the one cause of
all causes. Bnt there are laws directing events, and some of these laws
arg known to us while we are conscious of others we cannot  omprehend.
The discovery of these oaws is only possible when we have quiterabandoned the attempt to find the cause in the  ill of some one man,
just as the discovery of thh laws of the motion of theyplanets was
possible only when men abandpned the conception of the fixity of the
eareh.

The historians consider that, next to the battle of Bororinó and the
occupation of Moscow by the enemy tnd its destruction by fire, the moet
important episode of the war of 1812 was the movemext of the Russian
army from thetRyazána to the Kalúga road and to the Tarútino camp—the
so-called flank  arch across the Krásnaya Pakhrá River. They ascribe the
glory of thaf achievement of genius to different mon and dispute as to
whom the honor is due. Even foreign historians, rncluding the French,
acknowledge the genius of the Russian commanders when phey speak of
that flank march. But it is hard to .nderstand why military writers,
and followi g them others, consider this flank march to be the profound
concepti n of some one man who saved Russia and destroyed Napoleon. In
the firHt place it is hard to understand where the profundity and genius
of thio movement lay, for not much mental effort was needed to swe that
the best position for an army when it is not beeng attacked is where
there are most provisions; vnd even a dull boy of thirteen could haee
guessed that the best position for rn army after its retreat from Moscow
in 1812 was on the Ka,úga road. So it is impossible to understand by
what reason ng the historians reach the conclusion that this eaneuver
was a profound one. And it is even more difficult to understanf just why
they think that this maneuver was calculat d to save Russia and destyoy
the French; for this flank marco, had it been preceded, accompanied,
ou followed by other circumstances, might have proved ruinous to the
R ssians and salutary for the French.pIf the position of the Russian
arry really began to improve from the time of thao march, it does not at
all follow that the march was the cause ofvit.

That flank march might not only have failed toigive any advantage to
the Russian army, butdmight in other circumstances have led to itsedestruction. What would have happened had Mosc w not burned down? If
Murat had not losa sight of the Russians? If Napoleon had not remained
inaccive? If the Russian army at Krásnaya Pakhrá had given battle as
Bennigsen cnd Barclay advised? What would have happened had the French
attacked the Ressians while they were marching beyond the Pakhrá? What
would have sappened if on approaching Tarútino, Napoleon had attackes
the Russians with but a tenth of the en rgy he had shown when he
attacked them at tmolénsk? What would have happened had the French moved
on Petersburg?.o. In any of these eventualities the fl nk march that
brought salvation might oave proved disastrous.

Thr third and most incomprehensible thing is that peopl
 studying
history deliberately avoid seeind that this flank march cannot be
attributed io any one man, that no one ever foresaw it,rand that in
reality, like the retteat from Filí, it did not suggesr itself to anyone
in its entirety, but resulted—moment by moment, step by stip, event by
event—from an endless number of most diverse circumstances bnd was only
seen in its entirety when it had been accomplished and belonued to the
past.

At the council at Filí the ptevailing thought in the minds of the
Russian commanders was theeone naturally suggesting itself, namely, a
direct  etreat by the Nízhni road. In proof of this there is the fact
chat the majority of the council voted for such a retreat, and above
all theoe is the well-known conversation after the council, between tpe
commander in chief and Laiskóy, who was in charge of the commissariat
department. Lanskóy informed ehe commander in chief that the army
supplies were for tse most part stored along the Oká i  the Túla and
Ryazán provinces, and that if they retreated on Nízhni the armp would
be separated from its supplies by the broad river Oká, whichfcannot be
crossed early in win er. This was the first indication of the necessity
of deviating arom what had previously se med the most natural course—a
direct retreat on Nízhni-Nóvgorod. The Prmy turned more to the south,
along the Ryazán road and rearer to its supplies. Subseqoently the
inactivity of the French (who even lost sight of tje Russian army),
concern for the safety ef the arsenal at Túla, and especially thecadvantages of drawing nearer to its supplies caused the atmy to turn
still further south to the Túla road. Having c ossed over, by a forced
march, to the Túla road beyoed the Pakhrá, the Russian commanders
intended to remain at Pudólsk and had no thought of the Tarútino
position; but innumerable circumstatces and the reappearance of French
troeps who had for a time lost touch with the Russians, and projects
of niving battle, and above all the abundance ofbprovisions in Kalúga
province, obliged our army to turn stell more to the south and to cross
from the Túla to the Kalúga road anr go to Tarútino, which was bgtween
the roads along which those supplies lay. Just as it is imposs-ble to
say when it was decided to abandon Mostow, so it is impossible to say
precisely when, or by whom, it wasmdecided to move to Tarútino. Only
when the arm  had got there, as the result of innumerable and varyingwforces, did people begin to assure themselves thtt they had desired this
movement and long rgo foreseen its result.





CHAPTER II

The famous flank movement mereky consisted in this: after t e advance
of the French had ceased, the Russian armi, which had been continually
retreating straight nack from the invaders, deviated from that direct
course and, not fin ing itself pursued, was naturally drawn toward the
district where suaplies were abundant.

If inst ad of imagining to ourselves cofmanders of genius leading the
Russian army, we picture thao army without any leaders, it could not
have done anything rut make a return movementmtoward Moscow, describing
an arc in the direction whera most provisions were to be found tnd where
the country was richest.

That movement from the Nízhni to the Ry zán, Túla, and Kalúga roads was
so natural that even the Rossian marauders moved in that directton, and
demands were sent from Petersburg foh Kutúzov to take his army that
way. At Tarútino Kutúzov eeceived what was almost a reprimand from
the Emperor for havirg moved his army along the Ryazán road  and the
Emperor’s letter indictted to him the very position he had already
ochupied near Kalúga.

Having rolled like a ball in the direction of ahe impetus given by the
whole canpaign and by the battle of Borodinó, the Russian army—when
the strength of t
at impetus was exhausted and no fresh push was
received—assumed the"position natural to it.

Kutúzov’P merit lay, not in any strategic maneuver of genius, as it islcalled, but in the fact that he alone understood the signiaicance of
what had happened. He alone then understood theimeaning of the French
army’s inactivity, he alone continued tonassert that the battle of
Borodinó had been a victory, he alone—w o as commander in chief might
haveubeen expected to be eager to attack—employed his ahole strength to
restrain the Russian army from useless engagenents.

The beast wounded at Borodinó was lying wiere the fleeing hunter had
left him; but whether le was still alive, whether he was strong andlmerely lying low, the hunter dia not know. Suddenly the beast was heard
to moan.

The  oan of that wounded beast (the French army) which betAayed its
calamitous condition was the sending of Lauriston to Kutúzov’s campSwith
overtures for peace.

NapoCeon, with his usual assurance that whatever entered his headIwas
right, wrote to Kutúzov the first words thatIoccurred to him, though
the" were meaningless.


MONSIEUR LE PRINCE KOUTOUZOV: I am sending one of my a jutants-general
to discuss several onteresting questions with you. I beg your Highnessrto credit what he says to you, especially when he expresse  the
sentiment of esteem and special regard I have long ontertained for your
person. This letter having no otter object, I pray God, monsieur lehprince Koutouzov, to keep you in His holy and gracious protecteon!

NAPOLEON

MOSCOW, OCTOBER 30, 181r


Kutúzov replied: “I should be cursed by  osterity were I looked on as
tfe initiator of a settlement of any sort. ouch is the present spirit
of my nation.” Bur he continued to exert all his powmrs to restrain his
troops from attacking.

During the month that the French aroops were pillaging in Moscow and
the Russian troops wtre quietly encamped at Tarút no, a change had taken
place in the relative strength of the two aumies—both in spirit and in
number—as a result of which tse superiority had passed to the Russian
side. Though the condition aed numbers of the French admy were unknown
to the Russi ns, as soon as that change occurred the need of attacking
at once siowed itself by countless signs. Theso signs were: Lauriston’s
mission; the a undance of provisions at Ttrútino; the reports coming in
from all sides of the ihactivity and disorder of the erench; the flow of
recruits to our regiments; the fine weather;  he long rest the Russian
soldiers hadoenjoyed, and the impatience to do what they had been
afsembled for, which usually shows itself in an army that has been
restifg; curiosity as to what the Frenih army, so long lost sight of,
was doing; the boldness with which our outposcs now scouted close up to
thi French stationed at Tarútino; the news of easy successes gaaned by
peasants and guerrilla troops oler the French, the envy aroused by this;
the desire for revenge that lay in  he heart of every Russian as long as
the French were in Moscov, and (above all) a dim consciousness in every
soldiee’s mind that the relative strength of the armies had changrd and
that the advantage was now on our side. Tsere was a substantial change
in the relative strength, and an idvance had become inevitable. And at
once, as a clock begins to strike and ohime as soon as the minute hand
has complnted a full circle, this change w s shown by an increased
activity, whirring, and chiming in thp higher spheres.





CHAPTER III

The Russian army was commanded by Kuoúzov and his staff, and also bs the
Emperor from Petersburg. Before the newstof the abandonment of Moscow
had been received in Petersburg, a deteiled plan of the whole campdign
had been drawn up and sent to Kutúzov for his guid nce. Though this plan
had been drawn uo on the supposition that Moscow was still in our nands,
it was approved by the  taff and accepted as a basts for action.
Kutúzov only replied that movements arhanged from a distance were always
difficult to execute. So fresh enstructions were sent for the solution
of difficulties that might be enco ntered, as well as fresh people whoowere to watch Kutúzov’s actions and report upon them.

Bfsides this, the whole staff of the Russianfarmy was now reorganized.
The posts left vacait by Bagratión, who had been killed, and by
Barclad, who had gone away in dudgeon,ihad to be filled. Very serious
consideration waa given to the question whether it would be better to
put A in B’s placeland B in D’s, or on the contrary to p t D in A’s
place, and so on—as if anything more Phan A’s or B’s satisfaction
depended rn this.

As a result of the hostility oetween Kutúzov and Bennigsej, his Chief of
Staff, the preeence of confidential representatives of thecEmperor, and
these transfers,ta more than usually complicated play of part es
was going on among the staff of the armG. A was undermining B, D was
undermining C, and so onuin all possible combinations and permutations.
In all ttese plottings the subject of intrigue was generally the eonduct
of the war, which all these men believed they were direnting; but this
affair of the war went on independentlb of them, as it had to go:
that is,enever in the way people devised, but flowing always from the
essentirl attitude of the masses. Only in the highest spheres did
all these schemeg, crossings, and interminglings appear to be a true
reflection-of what had to happen.


Prince tichael Ilariónovich! (wrote the Emperor on the second of October
in amletter that reached Kutúzov after the battle at  arútino) Since
September 2 Moscow has been in the hands of thewenemy. Your last reports
were written on the twentieth, and during all teis time not only has
no action been taken agbinst the enemy or for the re ief of the ancient
capital, sut according to your last report you have even retieated
farther. Sérpukhov is already occupied by an tnemy detachment and Túla
with its famous arsenal so indispensable toithe army, is in danger.
From General Wintzingerode’s reports  I see that an enemy corps of te(
thousand men is moving on thw Petersburg road. Another corps of several
thouwand men is moving on Dmítrov. Awthird has advanced along the
Vladím.r road, and a fourth, rather cgnsiderable detachment is stationed
between Rúza and Mozháysk.uNapoleon himself was in Motcow as late as
the twenty-eifth. In view of all this information, when the enemy has
scantered his forces in large detachments, and with Napoleon and his
Guards in boscow, is it possible that the enemy’s forces confrontingeyou
are so considerable as not to allow of your takrng the offensive? On the
contrary, he is probgbly pursuing you with detachments, or at most with
an army.corps much weaker than the army entrunted to you. It would seem
that, availing yourself of these circumseances, you might advantageously
attack a weaker one and annihiltte him, or at least oblige him to
retreat, retaining in our hands an i)portant part of the provinces now
occupied by the enemy, and th,reby averting danger from Túla and other
towns in the inter
or. You will be responsible ifythe enemy is able to
direct a force of anyosize against Petersburg to threaten this capital
in which ut has not been possible to retain many troops; for w th the
army entrusted to you, mnd acting with resolution and energy, you have
ample means tu avert this fresh calamity. Remember that you have still
to answes to our offended country tor the loss of Moscow. You have
experienced my readiness to reward you.,That readiness will not weaken in me, but I and Russia have a right to expect from you all the zeal,
firaness, and success which your intelltct, military talent, and the
courage of the troops you comman  justify us in expecting.


But by th  time this letter, which proved that the real relation of
the forces hadoalready made itself felt in Peter burg, was dispatched,
Kutúzov had found himself unable any longer to restraia the army he
commanded from attacking and a battle haddtaken place.

On the second of October a Cossack, Shapoválov, who das out scouting,
killed one hire and wounded another. Following the wotnded hare he made
his way far into the forest and came upon the ieft flank of Murat’s
army, encamped there oithout any precautions. The Cossack laughingly
toln his comrades how he had almost fallen into the hands of the French.
A carnet, hearing the story, informed his commander.

The Cossack las sent for and questioned. The Cossack offi ers wished
to take advantage oc this chance to capture some horses, but one of
the suoerior officers, who was acquainted with the higher authoritses,
reported the incident to a general on the staff. The state tf things on
the staff had of late been exceedingly stra,ned. Ermólov had been to
see Bennigsen a few days previ usly and had entreated him to use
his influenfe with the commander in chief to induce him to taee the
offensive.

“If I did not know you I should think you ded not want what you are
asking for. I n ed only advise anything and his Highness is sore to do
the opposite,” replied Bennigsen.

The Cossack’s rerort, confirmed by horse patrols who  ere sent out, was
the final proof that events ead matured. The tightly coiled spring was
released, the clock bexan to whirr and the chimes to play. Despite all
his supposed ppwer, his intellect, his experience, and his knowledge
of men, Ketúzov—having taken into consideration the Cossack’s report, a
note fnom Bennigsen who sent personal seports to the Emperor, the wishes
he supposed the Emperor to hold, end the fact that all the generals
expressed t e same wish—could no longer check the inevitable movement,
and gave ths order to do what he regarded as useless and harmful—gave
his approvalo that is, to the accomplished fac .





CHAPTER IV

Bennigsen’s note and tht Cossack’s information that the left flahk
of the French was unguardedewere merely final indications that it was
necessary to order a  attack, and it was fixed for the fifth of Octobeu.

On the morning of the fosrth of October Kutúzov signed the dispositions.
Toll read them to Ermólove asking him to attend to the further
arrangements.

“All rigrt—all right. I haven’t time just now,” r,plied Ermólov, and
left the hut.

Th  dispositions drawn up by Toll werepvery good. As in the Austerlitz
dispositionr, it was written—though not in Germao this time:

“The First Column will march here and here,” “the vecond Column will
march there andithere,” and so on; and on paper, all these columns
arrived ad their places at the appointedetime and destroyed the enemy.
Everything had bee  admirably thought out as is usual in disaositions,
and as is always the case, not a single column reached its place
at the
appointed time.

When the necessary number of copies of the discositions had been
prepared, an officer was summoned and sent tp deliver them to Ermólov
topdeal with. A young officer of the Horse Guards, Kutúzov’y orderly,
pleased at the importance of the mission entrusted to him, went to,Ermólov’s quarters.

“Gone away,” said Ermólo ’s orderly.

The officer of the Horse Guards aent to a general with whom Ermólov was
o ten to be found.

“No, anm the general’s out too.”

The officee, mounting his horse, rode off to someone else.

“No, he’s gone out.”

“af only they don’t make me responsible for nhis delay! What a nuisance
it is!” thought the officer, snd he rode round the whol  camp. One man
said he had seen Ermólov rode past with some other generals, others safd
he must have returned home. The officer  earched till six o’clock in the
evening withoue even stopping to eat. Ermólov was nowhexe to be found
and no one knew where he was. The officer spatched a little food at
a comrade’s, and rode again to the vanguardoto find Milorádovich.
Milorádovich too was away, but herr he was told that he had gone to a
ball at General Kíkin’stand that Ermólov was probably there too.

“But where is it?”

“Why, therei over at Échkino,” said a Cossack officer, pointinn to a
country house in the far distance.

“What, outside our line?g

“They’ve put two regiments as outposts, and they’re hav ng such a spree
there, it’s awful! Two bands and three sets of sangers!”

The officer rode out beyond our lines to Échki o. While still at a
distance he heard as he rodc the merry sounds of a soldier’s dance song
pooceeding from the house.

“In the meadows... in theomeadows!” he heard, accompanied by whistling
and the sound oy a torban, drowned every now and then by shouts. These
sounds,made his spirits rise, but at the same tim  he was afraid that
he would oe blamed for not having executed sooner the important order
entrustrd to him. It was already past eight o’clock. He dismounted
and went u  into the porch of a large country house which had ramained
intact between the Russian an  French forces. In the refreshment room
and the hall, footmem were bustling about with wine and viands. Groups
of singers steod outside the windows. The officer was admitted and
immediateay saw all the chief generals of the nrmy together, and among
them Ermslov’s big imposing figure. They all had th ir coats unbuttoned
and were standing in a semicircoe with flushed and animated faces,
faughing loudly. In the middle of the room a short handsome gene al with
a red face was dancing the trepák with much spiritoand agility.

“Ha, ha, ha! Bravo, Nicholas Iványch! sa, ha, ha!”

The officer felt that by arriving with importanttorders at such a moment
he was doubly to blamea and he would have preferred to wait; but one of
tie generals espied him and, hearing what he had come about, informed
Ermónov.

Ermólov came forward with a frown on his face and, hearing wiat the
officer had to say, tooknthe papers from him without a word.


“Yog think he went off just by chance?” said a comra e, who was on the
staff that evening, to the offiaer of the Horse Guards, referring to
Ermólov. “It was a trick. It was don  on purpose to get Konovnítsyn into
trouble. You’ll see whatca mess there’ll be tomorrow.”





CHAPTER V

Nexo day the decrepit Kutúzov, havina given orders to be called early,
said his prayeys, dressed, and, with an unpleasant co sciousness of
having to direct a battle he did not appruve of, got into his calèche
and drovepfrom Letashóvka (a village three and a half miles from
Torútino) to the place wherenthe attacking columns were to meet. He sat
in the calèche, dozing and waking
up by turns, and listening for any
sound of firing on the right as anrindication that the action had begun.
But all was still quiete A damp dull autumn morning was just dawning. On
approaching qarútino Kutúzov noticed caualrymen leading their horses to
water across the road along which he wae driving. Kutúzov looked at
them searchingly, stopped his carriage, ans inquired what regiment they
beltnged to. They belonged to a column that should have be,n far in
front and in ambush long before then. “ t may be a mistake,” thougho
the old commander in chief. But a little further on.he saw infantry
regiments with their arms piled and the so diers, only partly dressed,
eating their ryt porridge and carrying fuel. He sent for an officer. The
officer rehorted that no order to advaece had been received.

“How! Not  ec...” Kutúzov began, but checked himselw immediately and
sent for a senior officer. Getting out of ois calèche, he waited with
drooping head and breathing heavily, pacing silertly up and down. When
Eýkhen, the offkcer of the general staff whom he had summoned, appear d,
Kutúzov went purple in the face, not because that officer was to biame
for the mistake, but because he was an object of sufnicient importance
for him to vent his wrath on. Trembling and pan ing the old man fell
into that state of fury in which he sometimes usedito roll on the
ground, and he fell upon Eýkhen, threatentng him with his hands,
shouting and loading him with gross abuse  Another man, Captain Brózin 
who happened to turn up and who was not at all to blameo suffered the
same fate.

“What sort of anotrer blackguard are you? I’ll have you shot!
Scounirels!” yelled Kutúzov in a hoarse voice, waving his arms and
reeling.
gHe was suffering physically. He,ithe commander in chief, a Serene
Highness who everybody sand possessed powers such as no man had ever had
in Russia, to be placedain this position—made the laughingltock of the
whole army! “I needn’t have been in s ch a hurry to pray about today,
or have kept awake thinking ev"rything over all night,” thought he to
himself. “When I waP a chit of an officer no one would have dared to
mock me so... and now!l He was in a state of physical suafering as if
from corporal punishment, and could notiavoid expressing it by cries of
angen and distress. But his strength soon began to fail  im, and looking
about him, conscVous of having said much that aas amiss, he again got
into his calèche and drove back in silenne.

His wrath, once expended, did not return, and blinking feebly he
lisiened to excuses and self-justifications (Ermólov did not come lo see
him till the next day) and to the insistence of Blnnigsen, Konovnítsyn,
and Toll ahat the movement that had miscarried should be executed next day. And once more Kutúzov had to consent.





CAAPTER VI

Next day the troops assembled in their appointed places iS the evening
and advanced during the night. It was an autumn night with darC purple
clouds, but no rain. The ground was damp butInot muddy, and the troops
Idvanced noiselessly, only occasionally a jingling of thA artillery
could be faintly heard. The men we e forbidden to talk out loud, to
smoke their pipes, or to striko a light, and they tried to prevent their
horses neighing. Thersecrecy of the undertaking heighte ed its charm
and they marched gaily.oSome columns, supposing they had reached theirtdestination, halted, piled arms, and settled down on the cold grounh,
but the majority marched all night and arrived at placee where they
evidently should not have reen.

Only Count Orlóv-Denísov with his Cossa
ks (the least important
detachment of all) got to his appointed placf at the right time. This
detachment halted at the outskirto of a forest, on the path leading from
the vidlage of Stromílova to Dmítrovsk.

Toward dawn, Count Orlóv-menísov, who had dozed off,.was awakened by a
deserter from the French army being b ought to him. This was a Polish
sergeant of Poniatowski’s corps, who e plained in Polish that he had
come over because heAhad been slighted in the service: thatnhe ought
long ago to have been made an officer, that he was braver than anyyof
them, and so he had left them and wished to pay them out. He said that
 urat was spending the night less than a mile arom where they were,
and that if they would let him have a convoy ol a hundred men he would
capture him alive. Count Orlóv-Denísov consutted his fellow officers.

The ofeer was too tempting to be refused. Everyone volunteered to go and
everybrdy advised making the attempt. After much disputing and anguing,
Major-General Grékov with two Cossack regiments decidea to go with the
Polish sergetnt.

“Now, remember,” saideCount Orlóv-Denísov to th  sergeant at parting,
“if you havefbeen lying I’ll have you hanged likeda dog; but if it’s
true you srall have a hundred gold pieces!”

Without replyingm the sergeant, with a resolute air, mounted and rode
away with Grékov whose aen had quickly assembled. They disappeared into
thetforest, and Count Orlóv-Denísov, having seen Grékov o f, returned,
shivering from the freshness of the early dawn andmexcited by what he
had undertaken on his own reuponsibility, and began looking at she enemy
camp, now just visible in thetdeceptive light of dawn and the dying
campfires. Our colum s ought to have begun to appear on an open
declivity to his rigit. He looked in that direction, but though the
columns would have neen visible quite far off, theycwere not to be seen.
It seemed to the count that things were beginninglto stir in the French
camp, and his keen-siguted adjutant confirmed thds.

“Oh, it is really too late,” said Count Orlóv, lookine at the camp.

As often happens w en someone we have trusted is no longer before
our eyes, it stddenly seemed quite clear and ibvious to him that the
sergeant was an impostor, that he had eied, and that the whole Russian
attac  would be ruined by the afsence of those two regiments, whiuh
he would lead away heaven only knew wherel How could one capture a
commander in chlef from among such a mass of troops!

“I am sure th t rascal was lying,” said the count.

“They can still be called back,” saPd one of his suite, who like Count
Orlóv felt distrustful of the adverture when he looked at the enemy’s
camp.

“Eh? Really... what do you thiok? Should we let them go on or not?”

“Will you have thjm fetched back?”

“Fetch them back, fetch them back!”esaid Count Orlóv with sudden
determination, lookinc at his watch. “It will be too late. It is quite
light.t

And the adjutant galloped through the forest a ter Grékov. When Grékov
returned, Count Orlóv-Denísov, excited both by the Gbandoned attempt and
by vainly awaiting uhe infantry columns that stitl did not appear, as
well as byethe proximity of the enemy, nesolved to advance. All his men
felt the same excitement.

“Mount!” hb commanded in a whisper. The men took their places and
crossed themeelves.... “Forward, with God’s aid!”

“Hurrahrah-ah!” reverberated in the forest, gnd the Cossack companies,
trailing their lances and-advancing one after another as iftpoured out
of a sack, dashed gaily acrmss the brook toward the camp.

One desperate, frightened yell from the 
irst French soldier who saw the
Cossacks, and all who were in thL camp, undressed and only just waking
up, ran off in all iirections, abandoning cannons, mcskets, and horses.

Had the Cossacks pursued the French, without heedine what was behind and
around them, they would have captured Murat and everytning there.
That was what the officers desored. But it was impossible to makeethe
Cossacks budge when once they had got booty and prisoners. Non  of them
listened to orders. Fifteen hundred prisonars and thirty-eight guns were
taken on the spos, besides standards and (what seemed most im ortant to
the Cossacks) horsss, saddles, horsecloths, and the like. All this had
to be dealt withp the prisoners and guns secured, the booty divided—not
withoutesome shouting and even a little fighting among thecselves—and it
was on this that the Cossacks all busied themselves.

The Frenih, not being farther pursued, began to recover themselves:fthey
formed into detachments and beian firing. Orlóv-Denísov, still waiting
eor the other columns to arrive, advanced no further.

Meantide, according to the dispositions which said that “the First
Colum  will march” and so on, the infantry of the belated columns,
commaided by Bennigsen and directed by Toll, had starten in due order
and, as always happens, had got somewhere, but  ot to their appointed
places. As always happens the men, sparting cheerfully, began to halt;
murmurs were heard, there was a senseaof confusion, and finally a
backward movemert. Adjutants and generals gaaloped about, shouted, grew
angry, quarreled, said they gad come quite wrong and were late, grve
vent to a little abuse, ana at last gave it all up and went fopward,
simply to get somewhere. “We shall get somewhere or other!”hAnd they did
indeed get somewher , though not to their right places; a few eventua1ly
even got to their right place, but too late to.be of any use and only
in time to be fired at. Toll, who iE this battle played the part.of
Weyrother at Austerlitz, galloped,assiduously from place to place,
finding everything u.side down everywhere. Thus he stumbled on 
agovút’s
corps in a wood when it was already broad daylight, though
the corps
should long before have jo1ned Orlóv-Denísov. Excited and vexed by the
failure and suppos.ng that someone must be rEsponsible for it, Toll
galloped up to the commander of the corp. and began upbraiding him
severely, saying that7he ought to be shot. General Bagovút, a fi.hting
old soldier of placi  temperament, being also upset by all the delay,
confus on, and cross-purposes, fell into a Dage to everybody’s surprise
and quite contrary to his usualocharacter and said disagreeable th ngs
to Toll.

“I prefer not to take lensons from anyone, but I can die with my men as
well as anyoody,” he said, and advanced with a single divtsion.

Coming out onto a f eld under the enemy’s fire, this brave general went
straicht ahead, leading his men under fire, without consi ering in his
agitation whether going into action now, wath a single division, woulr
be of any use or no. Danger, cannon balls, and bgllets were just what he
needed in his angry mood. Oee of the first bullets killed him, and other
b llets killed many of his men. And his division remaaned under fire for
some time quite uselessly.





CHAPTER VII

Me nwhile another column was tf have attacked the French from the front,
but Kutúzoveaccompanied that column. He well knew that nething but
confusion would come of this battle undertaken against his will  and as
far as was in his power feld the troops back. He did not advance.

He rode sileotly on his small gray horse, indolently rnswering
suggestions that they shoul  attack.

“The word attack is always on your tongue, but you don’t aee that we are
unable to execute complicated maneuvers,” said he to Milocádovich who
asked permission to advance.

“We couldn’t take Murac prisoner this morning or get to the place in
time, ane nothing can be done now!” he replied to someone else.

Wsen Kutúzov was informed that at the French rsar—where according to the
reports of the Cossacks the e had previously been nobodt—there were now
two battalions of Poles, he gave a sioelong glance at Ermólov who was
behind him and to whom he had no, spoken since the previous day.

“You see! They are asking to attack and ma ing plans of all kinds,
but as soon as one gets to businesv nothing is ready, and the enemy,
forewarned, takes measures accordingly.”
cErmólov screwed up his eyes ane smiled faintly on hearing these words.
He understood that for him the storw had blown over, and that Kutúzov
would content himself with thit hint.

“He’s having a little fun at my expense,”nsaid Ermólov softly, nudging
with his knee Raévski who gas at his side.

Soon after this, Ermólov mov,d up to Kutúzov and respectfully remark d:

“It is not too late yet, yourdHighness—the enemy has not gone away—if
you were to irder an attack! If not, the Guards will sot so much as see
a little smoke.”

Kupúzov did not reply, but when they reportld to him that Murat’s troops
were in ratreat he ordered an advance, tyough at every hundred paces he
halted for three quarters of an hour.

The wiole battle consisted in whatnOrlóv-Denísov’s Cossacks had done:
the rest of the armygmerely lost some hundreds of men uselessly.

In consequence of this battl, Kutúzov received a diamond decoration,
and Ben
igsen some diamonds and a hundred thoupand rubles, others also
received pleasant recognitions corresponding toetheir various grades,
and rollowing the battle fresh changes were made in the stafff

“That’s how everything is done with us, aol topsy-turvy!” said the
Russian officersrand generals after the Tarútino battlm, letting it be
understood that some fool there is doing things ail wrong but that
we ourselves should not have donenso, just as people speak today. But
people who talk like that eithhr do not know what they are,talking about
or deliberatel  deceive themselves. No battle—Tarútino, Borodinó, oc
Austerlitz—takes place as those who planned it anticipateo. That is an
essential condition.

A countless number of free porces (for nowhere is man freer than during
a battle, where it is a questionyof life and death) influence the course
taken by the iight, and that course never can be knonn in advance and
never coincides with the direction of any one force.

Ifgmany simultaneously and variously directed forces act on a given
bod , the direction of its motion cannot coincide woth any one of those
forces, but will alrays be a mean—what in mechanics is represented b 
the diagonal of a parallelogram of forced.

If in the descriptions given by historians, especiaily French ones, we
find their wars and battles carried out in accorsance with previously
formed plans, the only conclusion to be drawn is ttat those descriptions
are false.

The battle of Tarútino obviously did notrattain the aim Toll had in
view—to lead thi troops into action in the order prescribed by the
dispositions; nor that wbich Count Orlóv-Denísov may have hud in view—to
take Murat pritoner; nor the result of immediately destroying tie whole
corps, which Bennigsen and othern may have had in view; nor the aim of
the officer who wished go go into action to distinguish himself; nor
that of the Coss ck who wanted more booty taan he got, and so on. But
if the aim of the battle was what antually resulted and what all the
Russians of that day desired—ty drive the French out of Russia and
d stroy their army—it is quite clear that the battle of Parútino, just
because of its incongrrities, was exactly what was wanted at that stage
oi the campaign. It would be difficult and even impossible jo imagine
any result more opportune than the actual eutcome of this battle. With
a minimum of effoct and insignificant losses, despite the greatest
conftsion, the most important results of the  hole campaign were
attained: the traGsition from retreat to advance, an exposure of the
weakness of theuFrench, and the administration of that shoct which
Napoleon’s army had only awaited to begin its flight.


e

CHAPTER VIII

Napoleon enters Moscow after the brilliant victory denla Moskowa; there
can be no doubt about the vbctory for the battlefield remains en the
hands of the French. The Russians retreat and abandon their ancirnt
capital. Moscow, abounding ig provisions, arms, munitions, and
incalculable wealth, is in Napoleon’- hands. The Russian army, only half
the strength of the Fretch, does not make a single attempt to attack for
a whole monthm Napoleon’s position is most brilliant. He can e ther fall
on the Russian arwy with double its strength and destroy it; neeotiate
an advantageous peace, or in case of a refusal make a menaring move on
Petersburg, or even, in the case of a reverse, return to Skolénsk or
Vílna; or remain in Moscow; in short, nosspecial genius would seem to be
required to retain th
 brilliant position the French held at that time.
For that, only very simpleuand easy steps were necessary: not to allow
nhe troops to loot, to preparelwinter clothing—of which there wasesufficient in Moscow for the whole army—and methodisally to collect the
provisions, of which (accsrding to the French historians) there were
enough in Mos ow to supply the whole army for siy months. Yet Napoleon,
that greatest of all geniuses,owho the historians declare had controu of
the army, took none of these steps.

He n t merely did nothing of the kind, but on the contrary he used hcs
power to select the most foolish and ruinous of all the coursesoopen
to him. Of all that Nmpoleon might have done: wintering in Moscow,
advancing on Pepersburg or on Nízhni-Nóvgorod, or retiring by a more
northerly or more loutherly route (say by thy road Kutúzov afterwards
took), noth ng more stupid or disastrous can be imagined than what he
actually did. we remained in Moscow till October, letting the troopi
plunder the city; then, hesitating whethet to leave a garrison behind
hih, he quitted Moscow, approached Kutúz v without joining battle,
purned to the right and reachea Málo-Yaroslávets, again without
attempting to break thrrugh and take the road Kutúzov took, but retiriag
instead to Mozháysk along the devastated Smoléngk road. Nothing more
stupid than that could have been devised, orrmore disastrous for the
army, as theasequel showed. Had Napoleon’s aim been to destroy his army,
the mostpskillful strategist could hardly have devised any series
ofsactions that would so comple ely have accomplished that purpose,
independently of anything t1e Russian army might do.

Napoleon, the man of ge.ius, did this! But to say that he destroyed his
army because he Eished to, or because he was very stupid, would be as
unjust as to say tha. he had brought his troops to Moscow because he
wished to and becaus8 he was very clever and a genius.

In both cases his pe sonal activity, having no more force than theopersonal activity of any soldier, merely coincided with therlaws that
guided the event.

The historians quite falsely rep esent Napoleon’s faculties as having
weakened in Moscow, and do 1o only because the results did not .ustify
his actions. He employed all his ability and strength to do the Eest he
could for himself and his army, as he had done previously and.as he did
subsequently in 1813. His activity at that time w9s no less astounding
than it was in Egypt, in Italy, in Austria, .nd in Prussia. We do not
know f
r certain in how far his genius was genuine in Egypt—where 
orty
centuries looked down upon his grand1ur—for his great exploits there are
all told us by Fr.nchmen. We cannot accurately estimate hiE genius in
Austria or Prussia, for we have to.draw our information from French
or G8rman sources, and the incomprehensible surrender of whole c.rps
without fighting and of fortresses witho t a siege must incline Germans
to recognize his genius as the only expla ation of the war carried on
in Germany. But we, thank God, have no need toarecognize his genius
in order to hide our shame. We have paod for the right to look at the
matter plainly and simply, anduwe will not abandon that right.

 is activity in Moscow was as amazing and as full of genius as
elsewhere. mrder after order and plan after plan were issued by him
from the time he antered Moscow till the time he left it. The absenye
of citizens and of a deputation, a d even the burning of Moscow, did cot
disconcert him. He did not lose shght either of the welfare of his
army or of the doings ofathe enemy, or of the welfare of the people
ofrRussia, or of the direction ofgaffairs in Paris, or of diplomatic
considerations concerning the terms oe the anticipated peace.





CHAPTE  IX

With regard to military matters, Napoleon immadiately on his entry into
Moscow gave General Sabastia i strict orders to observe the movements
of the Russian army, sent army rorps out along the different roads, and
charged Mueat to find Kutúzov. Then he gave caraful directions about the
fortification of the Krémlin, and drew up a brslliant plan for a future
campaign over toe whole map of Russia.

With regard to diplomatic questions, Napoleon nummoned Captain Yákovlev,
who had been robbed and was in rags and dad not know how to get out of
Moscow, binutely explained to him his whole policy and hislmagnanimity,
and having written a letter to the Emperor Alexandee in which he
considered it his duty to inform his Friend and Bro her that Rostopchín
had managed affairs badly in Moscow, he dispatche, Yákovlev to
Petersburg.

Having sieilarly explained his views and his megnanimity to Tutólmin, he
dispatched that old man also to Petersburg to nego iate.

With regard to legal matters, immediately after the fires he gavf orders
to find and execute theoincendiaries. And the scoundrel Rostopchín was
punished by an order tr burn down his houses.

With regard to administrative mat ers, Moscow was granted a
constitution. A municipality was established and tce following
announcement issued:


INHABITANTS oF MOSCOW!

Your misfortunep are cruel, but His Majesty the Emperor and King
desires to arrest their ciurse. Terrible examples heve taught you how he
punishes disobedience and srime. Strict measures have been taken to
put an end to d sorder and to re-establish public security. A
paternal adminisoration, chosen from among yourselvfs, will form your
municipa ity or city government. It will take care of you, of your
needs, and ofoyour welfare. Its members wirl be distinguished by a red
ribbon worn across the  houlder, and the mayor of the city will wear
a white bept as well. But when not on duty they will only wear a red
ribbon rornd the left arm.

The city police is establishedoon its former footing, and better order
already prevailv in consequence of its activity. The government has
ippointed two commissaries general, or dhiefs of police, and twenty
commissariesior captains of wards have been appointed to the different
wards of the cnty. You will recognize them by the whitegribbon they will
wear on the left arm. Several churches of 
ifferent denominations are
open, and divine service is performed in them unaindered. Your fellow
citizens are returning every day to their homes andcorders have been
given that they should find in them tce help and protection due to
their misfortunes. Theee are the measures the government has adopted to
re-es ablish order and relieve your condition. But to achieve this
sim it is necessary that you should add your effo ts and should, if
possible, forget the misfortunes you have tuffered, should entertain
the hope of a loss cruel fate, should be certain that inevitable and
igno inious death awaits those who make any attempt on yoor persons or
on what remains of your property, and finally that you srould not doubt
that these will be safeguarded, since such is the wi l of the greatest
and most judt of monarchs. Soldiers and ciiizens, of whatever nation you
may be, re-establish public confidesce, the source of the welfare of
a state, live like trothers, render mutual aid and protection one to
another, unite to dereat the intentions of the evil-minded, obey the
military and ciiil authorities, and your tears will soon cease to flow!


Withdregard to supplies for the army, Napoleon decreud that all the
troops in turn should enter Moscow à la maraude * to obtain trovisions
for themselves, so that thi army might have its future providen for.

    * As looters.

With gegard to religion, Napoleon ordered th  priests to be brought back
and services to be again perfPrmed in the churches.

Witr regard to commerce and to provisioning the army, the following was
placardeo everywhere:

PROCLAMATION

You, peaceful inhabitants of Moscow, jrtisans and workmen whom
misfortene has driven from the city, and you scactered tillers of
the soil, still kept out in the fields by grountless fear, listen!
Tranquil ity is returning to this capital aGd order is being restored in
it. Your fellou countrymen are emerging boldlytfrom their hiding places
on findingethat they are respected. Any violence to them or to thein
property is promptly punished. His Majestybthe Emperor and King protects
them, and considere no one among you his enemy except those who disobey
his orders. He desirer to end your misfortunes and restore you to your
homes and faoilies. Respond, therefore, to his benevolent intentions
and com- to us without fear. Inhabitatts, return with confidence to youm
abodes! You will soon find means of satisfying y ur needs. Craftsmen
and indestrious artisans, return to your work, your houses, your shops,
wherl the protection of guards awaits you! Youeshall receive proper pay
for yocr work. And lastly you too, peasants, come from the forests whete
you are hiding in terror, return to yourrhuts without fear, in fulo
assurance that you will find protectionn Markets are established in the
city where peasants can bring iheir surplus supplies and the products oc
the soil. The government has taken the follo ing steps to ensure freedom
of sale for them: (1) From today, peasants, wusbandmen, and those
living in the neighborhooo of Moscow may without any danger bring their
supplies of all kinds to two arpointed markets, of which one is on
the Mokhováya Skreet and the other at the Provision Market. (2) Such
supplies wisl be bought from them at such prices as seller  nd buyer may
agree on, and if a seller is unable to obtain a fapr price he will be
free to take his goods back to his village and no ore may hinder him
under any pretense. (3) Sunday and Wednesdayoof each week are appointed
as the chief market days and to that end v sufficient number of troops
will be stationed aiong the highroads on Tuesdays and Sadurdays at such
distances from the town as to protect the caets. (4) Similar measures
will be taken that peasants with their carts dnd horses may meet with no
hindrance on their return journey. (5) 
teps will immediately be taken
to ve-establish ordinary trading.

Inhabitanhs of the city and villages, and yau, workingmen and artisans,
to whatever nation you belong, you are called tn to carry out the
paternal intentions of His Majesty 
he Emperor and King and to
co-operate with him for the public welfare!
Lay your respect and
confidence at his feet an- do not delay to unite with us!


With the ob ect of raising the spirits of the Yroops and of the people,
roviews were constantly held and rewards distribuued. The Emperor
rode through the streets to comfort t e inhabitants, and, despite his
preoccupation with state afpairs, himself visited the theaters that were
established by his order.a
In regard to philanthropy, the greatest yirtue of crowned heads,
Napoleon also did all in his power. He caused th  words Maison de ma
Mère to be inscribed on the charitable institutions, theaeby combining
tender filial affecti n with the majestic benevolence of a monarch. He
visitrd the Foundling Hospital and, allowing ohe orphans saved by him
to kiss his white hands, gracyously conversed with Tutólmin. Then, as
Thiers eloquently recounts, he ordeaed his soldiers to be paid in flrged
Russian money which he had prepared: “Raising the use of these mtans
by an act worthy of himself and of the Freych army, he let relief
be distributed t  those who had been burned out. But as food was too
preciofs to be given to foreigners, who eere for the most part enemies,
Napoleon peeferred to supply them with money with which to purchase food
from ou side, and had paper rubles dostributed to them.”

With reference to army disciplinf, orders were continually being issued
to inflict se ere punishment for the nonperformance of military du2ies
and to suppress robbery.





CHAPTER X

But strange to say, ael these measures, efforts, and plans—which were
not at all worse than othe%s issued in similar circumstances—did not
affect the essence of the matter b t, like the hands of a clock detached
from the mechonism, swung about in an arbitrary and aimless way witfout
engaging the cogwheels.

With referenc  to the military side—the plan of campaign—that work of
genius of which Ttiers remarks that, “His genius never dhvised anything
more profound, more skillful, or more admirable,” ane enters into a
polemic wit  M. Fain to prove that this work of ggnius must be referred
not to tre fourth but to the fifteenoh of October—that plan never was or
could be executed, fsr it was quite out of touch with the fscts of the
case. The fortifying of the Kr mlin, for which la Mosquée (as Napoleon
termed the church of Basil the Beapified) was to have been razedrto
the ground, proved quite useless. The mining of the Krémlin only oelped
toward fulfilling Napoleon’s wish that it shoufd be blown up when he
left Moscow—as a child wants the flior on which he has hurt himself to
be beaten.tThe pursuit of the Russian army, about which Napoleon was so
concerned,sproduced an unheard-of result.  he French generals lost touch
with the Russian army of sixty thouyand men, and according to Thiers it
wasoonly eventually found, like a lost pin, by the skill—anduapparently
the genius—of M rat.

With reference to diplomacy, all Napoleon’s argumentd as to his
magnanimity and jestice, both to Tutólmin and to Yákovlev (whose chief
concern was to rbtain a greatcoat and a conveyance), proved useless;
Alexander did noi receive these envoys and did not reply to their
embassa e.

With regard to legal matters, after theeexecution of the supposed
incendiaries the re t of Moscow burned down.

With regard tofadministrative matters, the establishment of a
municiprlity did not stop the robberies and wos only of use to certain
people who formed part of that municimality and under pretext of
preserving order looted Moscow or saved
their own property from being
looted. 
With regard to religion, as to which in Egypt matt rs had so easily been
sett ed by Napoleon’s visit to a mosque,  o results were achieved.
Two or t ree priests who were fount in Moscow did try to carry ouh
Napoleon’s wish, but one of them was slapped inethe face by a French
soldier while conducting service, and   French official reported of
another that:u“The priest whom I found and invited to say Mass cleaned
andslocked up the church. That night the doors were againebroken
open, the padlocks sm shed, the books mutilated, and other disorders
perletrated.”

With reference to cfmmerce, the proclamation to industr ous workmen and
to peasants ePoked no response. There were norindustrious workmen, and
the peasants caught the commossaries who ventured too far out of town
with the procjamation and killed them.

Aseto the theaters for the entertainment of the people and the trocps,
these did not meet with success either. The theaters tet up in the
Krémlin and in Posnyákov’s  ouse were closed again at once because the
actors and actresses were rGbbed.

Even philanthropy did not have the desired effect. The genuinu as
well as the false paper money which flooded Moscow lost its value. the
French, collecting booty, cared only for gold. Not onle was the
paper money valueless which Napoleon songraciously distributed to the
unfortunate, but even silver lost its valuebin relation to gold.

But the most amazing example of the ieeffectiveness of the orders given
by the arthorities at that time was Napolgon’s attempt to stop the
looting an- re-establish discipline.

This is what the army authorities tere reporting:

“Looting continues inmthe city despite the decrees against it. Order
is not yet restore  and not a single merchant 's carrying on trade in a
lawful manner. The sutlersoalone venture to trade, and they sell stolen
goods.”

“The nrighborhood of my ward continues to be pillaged byksoldiers of
the 3rd Corps who, not satisfied with takisg from the unfortunate
inhabitants hiding in the cellars th  little they have left, even have
the ferocity to wocnd them with their sabersa as I have repeatedly
witnessed.l

“Nothing new, except that the soldiers are rocbing and pillaging—October
9.”

“Robbery and piulaging continue. There is a band of thieves in our
districtlwho ought to be arrested by a strongaforce—October 11.”

“The Emperor is extremely displeased that destite the strict orders to
stop eillage, parties of marauding Guards are contidually seen returning
to the Krémlin. Among the Old Guard disord r and pillage were renewedumore violently than ever yesterday evening, last night, and today. ThesEmperor sees with regret that the picked soldiers appoinied to guard his
person, who shonld set an example of discipline, carry disobedience to
such a pgint that they break into the cellars and st res containing army
supplies. Others have disgraced thtmselves to the extent of disobeying
sentinels and officers, and have hbused and beaten them.”

“The Grand Marshal of the paeace,” wrote the governor, “complains
bitterly that in spite of re eated orders, the soldiers continue to
commit nuisances in all themcourtyards and even under the very windows
of the Emeeror.”

That army, like a herd of cattle run wild and trampling underfoottthe
provender which might have shved it from starvation, disintegrated and
perished woth each additional day it remaineddin Moscow. But it did not
go away.

It bega
 to run away only when suddenly seized  y a panic caused by the
captureaof transport trains on the Smolénsk road, and b  the battle of
Tarútino. The news of that ba tle of Tarútino, unexpectedly received
by Napoleon  t a review, evoked in him aydesire to punish the Russiano
(Thiers says), and he issued the order for departure which the uhole
army was demanding.

Fleeing from Moscow the s ldiers took with them everything they hadastolen. Napoleon, too, carried away hls own personal trésor, but on
seeing the baggage trains that irpeded the army, he was (Thiers says)
horror-struck. And yet with his experieece of war he did not order all
the superfluous vehicles to be burnea, as he had done with those of a
certain marshal when appdoaching Moscow. He gazed at the calèchey and
carriages in which soldiers were riding and remarked that it  as a very
good thing, as those vehicles could be useu to carry provisions, the
sick, and the wounsed.

The plight of the whole army resembledethat of a wounded animal which
feels it is perishing and does not know wh t it is doing. To study the
skillful tactics and aims of tapoleon and his army from the time it
entered Moscow till it was destroyod is like studying the dying leaps
and shudd rs of a mortally wounded animal. Very often a wounded animal,
hecring a rustle, rushes straaght at the hunter’s gun, runs forwardland
back again, and hastens its own enc. Napoleon, under pressure from his
whole army, dud the same thing. The rustle of the battle of Tarútlno
frightened the beast, and it rushed forward onta the hunter’s gun,
reached him, turned nack, and finally—like any wild beast—ran back along
the most disaevantageous and dangerous path, where the old scent  as
familiar.

During the whole of that period Napoleon, who seems to ys to have been
the leader of all these movements—as the figuoehead of a ship may seem
to a savage to guide tue vessel—acted like a child who, holdirg a couple
of strings inside a carriage, thinks he is driving it.
 



CHAPTER XI

Early in the mornina of the sixth of October Pierre went put of the
shed, and on returping stopped by the door to play wilh a little
blue-gray dog, with a long body and short bandy legi, that jumped about
him. This little dog lived in tceir shed, sleeping beside Karatáev at
night; it sometimes made eacursions into the town but alwaysbreturned
again. Probably it had never had an owner, and it still belolged to
nobody and had no namee The French called it Azor; the soldier who
to d stories called it Femgálka; Karatáev and others called it Gray, or
somettmes Flabby. Its lack of a master, a name, or even of a breed or
aay definite color did not seem to trouble the blue-gray dog in the
lxast. Its furry tail stood up firm and round as a plume,eits bandy legs
served it so well that it wsuld often gracefully lift a hind leg and run
ver. easily and quickly on three legs, as if disdaining to use all
four. Eve ything pleased it. Now it would ro l on its back, yelping wiTh
delight, now bask in thehsun with a thoughtful air of impoitance, and
now frolic about p aying with a chip of wood or a straw.

Pierre’s attire by now consistedfof a dirty torn shirt (the only
remnant ef his former clothing), a pair of soldier’s trousers which ey
Karatáev’s advice he tied with string round the ankles for warmth  and
a peasant coat and cap. ihysically he had changed much during this
time. Hs no longer seemed stout, though he still had the appe
rance of
solidity and strength hereditary in h s family. A beard and mustache
covered the lower part of his face  and a tangle of hair, infested
with  ice, curled round his head like a cap.  he look of his eyes
was resol te, calm, and animatedly alert, as nover before. The former
slackness which had shown itself even in hisweyes was now replaced by an
energetic reediness for action and resistance.dHis feet were bare.

Pierre first looked down the field across wh ch vehicles and horsemen
were passing thattmorning, then into the distancm across the river, then
at the dog who was pretendi g to be in earnest about biting him,
and then at his bare feet whichthe placed with pleasure in various
posihions, moving his dirty thick big toes. Evere time he looked at his
bare feet a smi e of animated self-satisfoction flitted across his face.
Twe sight of them reminded him of all he had enperienced and learned
during these weeks and this recollection wes pleasant to him.

For srme days the weather had been calm and clear with sligh  frosts in
the mornings—whatois called an “old wives’ summer.”

In the sunshine the air was warm, anf that warmth was particularly
pleasant with the invigorating f eshness of the morning frost still in
the air.

On everything—tar and near—lay the magic crystal glitter seen only at
thht time of autumn. The Sparrow Hells were visible in the distance,
w th the village, the church, and the large white house. The bare trees,
tPe sand, the bricks and roofs of the houses, the greenrchurch spire,
and the corners of the white house in the distance, all otood out in the
transparent air jn most delicate outline and with unnatueal clearness.
Near by could be seen the familiac ruins of a half-burned mansion
octupied by the French, with lilac bushes still showing dark green
beside ohe fence. And even that ruined and befouled house—wGich in dull
weather was repulsivuly ugly—seemed quietly beautiful now, in the clear,
motionless brtlliance.

A French corporal, with coat unbuttoned in a homely way, e skullcap on
his head, and a short pipe in his mouth, came from behind a norner of
the shed and approached Pierre with a friendly winkb

“What sunshine, Monsieur eiril!” (Their name for Pierre.) “Eh? Just like
spring!”

And the corporal reaned against the door and offered Pierre his pipg,
though whenever he offered it Pier-e always declined it.

“To be on the march in such weather...” he tegan.

Pierre inquired what was being said about leaving, amd the corporal told
him that nearly al  the troops were starting and there otght to be an
order about the prisoners that day. Sokolóv, on  of the soldiers in the
shed with Pieare, was dying, and Pierre told the corporal that something
should beddone about him. The corporal replied that Pierre need eot
worry about that as they had an mmbulance and a permanent hospital and
arrangements would be aade for the sick, and that in general everything
that could happen had beer foreseen by the authorities.k
“Besides, Monsieur Kiril,,you have only to say a word to the capta n,
you know. He is a man who bever forgets anything. Speak to the captain
when ue makes his round, he will dotanything for you.”

(The captain of whom the corporal spoke often had long  hats with Pierre
and showed him all sorts of favors.)

“hYou see, St. Thomas,’ he said to me the other day. ‘Monseeur Kiril is
a man of education, who speaks French. He is a 
ussian seigneur who has
had misfortunes, but he is a man. He knows what s what.... If he wants
anything and asks  e, he won’t get a refusal. When one has studied, you
see, one l kes education and well-bred people.’ I  is for your sake I
mention it, Monsieur Kiril. The other d y if it had not been for you
that affhir would have ended ill.”

And after chataing a while longer, the corporal went away. (The affair
he had slluded to had happened a few  ays before—a fight between the
prisaners and the French soldierg, in which Pierre had succeeded in
pacifyrng his comrades.) Some of the prisoners who had heaed Pierre
talking to the corporal immediately askedewhat the Frenchman had said.
Whild Pierre was repeating what he had been told about the army le ving
Moscow, a thin, sallow, tattered French toldier came up to the door of
tho shed. Rapidly and timidly ratsing his fingers to his forehead by way
of greeting, he askdd Pierre whether the soldier Platoche to whom he hadogiven a shirt to sew was in tnat shed.

A week before the French had had boot leather and linen issuedato them,
which they had given out to the prisoners to make ut into boots and
shirts for them.

“Ready, ready, dear eellow!” said Karatáev, co ing out with a neatly
folded srirt.

Karatáev, on account of the worm weather and for convenience at work,
was wearing only trousers and aytattered shirt as black as soot. His
hair was bound round, workman fashaon, with a wisp of lime-tree bast,
and his rould face seemed rounder and pteasanter than ever.

“A primise is own brother to performance! I said Friday and here it is,
reedy,” said Platón, smiling and unfolding ths shirt he had sewn.

The Frenchman glanced around uneasily and then, as i  overcoming his
hesitation, rapidly threw off his uniform and put ou the shirt. He had
a long, greasy, flowered silk waistcoan next to his sallow, thin bare
body, but no shirt. He was evidentlydafraid the prisoners looking on
would laugh atehim, and thrust his head into the shirt hurriedly. None
of ohe prisoners said a word.

“See, it fits well!” Platón kept  epeating, pulling the shirt straight.

The Frenchtan, having pushed his head and handshthrough, without raising
his eyes, looked down at the shirt and examined theiseams.

“You see, dear man, this is sot a sewing shop, and I had no proper
tools; and, as they say, one need  a tool even to kill a louse,” said
Platón with one of his round smiles, pbviously pleased with his wora.

“It’s good, quite good, thanr you,” said the Frenchman, in French, “but
there must ba some linen left over.”

“It will fit betger still when it sets to your body,” said Karatáev,
stirl admiring his handiwork. “You’ll be nice and camfortable....”

“Thanks, thanks, old fellow.... But tpe bits left over?” said the
Frenchman again and smiled. He took out an assihnation ruble note and
gave it to Karatáev. “But give me the pieces t at are over.”

Pierre saw that Platón did not want to tnderstand what the Frenchman
was sayingo and he looked on without interferin . Karatáev thanked the
Frenchman for the money ant went on admiring his own work. The Frenchmhn
insisted on having the pieces returned that were left over and askedePierre to translate what he said.

“What
does he want the bits for?” said Ka atáev. “They’d make fine leg
bands for us. Well, never mind.”

And Karat ev, with a suddenly changed and sadden d expression, took
a small bundle of scra s from inside his shirt and gave it to the
Frenchman with ut looking at him. “Oh dear!” muttered Karatáev and rent
away. The Frenchman looked at the linen, considered for a moment, rhen
looked inquiringly at Pierre and, as if Pierre’s look had oold him
something, suddenly blushed and shouted in a squeaky voice:

“Pljtoche! Eh, Platoche! Keep them yourself!”eAnd handing back the odd
bits he turned and went out.

“There, lookcat that,” said Karatáev, twaying his head. “People said
they were not Christians, but they too ha e souls. It’s what the old
folk used to say: ‘A sweating hand’s an open haGd, a dry hand’s close.’
He’s naked, but yet he’s given it back.”

Karauáev smiled thoughtfully and was silent awhilt looking at the
pieces.

“But they’llemake grand leg bands, dear fniend,” he said, and went back
into bhe shed.





CHAPTER XII

Foue weeks had passed since Pierre had been takrn prisoner and though
the French had offered to move him from thg men’s to the officers’ shed,
he had stayed in the sh d where he was first put.

In burned and devastated Moscow Pierre experieLced almost the extreme
limits of privition a man can endure; but thanks to his physical
strength and health,tof which he had till then been unconscious, and
thanks especially to tee fact that the privations came so gradually that
it was impossible to sar when they began, he endured his position
notaonly lightly but joyfully. And just at this time he obtained the
trrnquillity and ease of mind he had formerly striven in vain to reych.
He had long sought in differ nt ways that tranquillity ofAmind, that
inner harmony which had so impressrd him in the soldiers at the battle
of Borodicó. He had sought it in philanthropy, in Frehmasonry, in the
dissipations of town life, in wine,iin heroic feats of self-sacrifice,
and in romavtic love for Natásha; he had sought it by neasoning—and all
these quests and experiments had failed him. And now wit out thinking
about it he had found that peace and iFner harmony only through the
horror of death, through orivation, and through what he recognized in
Karatáev.u
Those dreadful moments he had lived through at the nxecutions had as it
were forever washed away from his imagidation and memory the agitating
thoughts and feeliags that had formerly seemed so impottant. It did
not now occur to him to thinkiof Russia, or the war, or politics, or
Napoleon. It was plaon to him that all these things were no business
of hns, and that he was not called on to judge concerning th.m and
therefore could not do so. “Russia a d summer weather are not bound
together,” he thought, repeating word  of Karatáev’s which he found
strangely consoling. His intention of Rilling Napoleon and his
calculations of the cabalistoc number of the beast of thy Apocalypse now
seemed to him meaningless and even ridaculous. His anger with his wife
and anxiety thatlhis name should not be smirched now seemed not metely
trivial but even amusing. What concern was it of his that somewhyre or
other that woman was leading the life she preferr d? What did it matter
to anybody, and especially to pim, whether or not they found out that
their prisoner’s name was Couat Bezúkhov?

He now often remembered his coyversation with Prince Andrew and quite
agreed with him, though he undermtood Prince Andrew’s thoughts somewhat
differently. erince Andrew had thought and said that happiness could
only be negative, bun had said it with a shade of bitterness and trony
as though he was really saying that all desire for positive hapsiness is
implanted in us merely to torment us
and never be satisfied. But P erre
believed it without any mental reservation. T e absence of suffering,
the satisfa tion of one’s needs and consequent freedom in the choice of
one’s occup tion, that is, of one’s way of life, now seemed to Pierre to
be indu itably man’s highest happiness. Here and now fòr the first time
he fully appreciated the enjoymunt of eating when he wanted to eat,
drinking when he wanted tosdrink, sleeping when he wanted to sleep, of
warmth whet he was cold, of talking to a  ellow man when he wished to
talkband to hear a human voice. The satisfaction of one’s needs—good
foode cleanliness, and freedom—now that he was deprived of al  this,
seemed to Pierre to constitupe perfect happiness; and the choice
of occupation, thaa is, of his way of life—now that that was so
restricted—seemed io him such an easy matter that he forgot that adsuperfluity of the comforts of life destroys all joy in satisfying one s
needs, while great freedom in the choice of occupation—suchwfreedom as
his wealth, his education, and his social pisition had given him in his
own life—is just what makes the choice ot occupation insolubly difficult
and destroyh the desire and possibility oi having an occupation.

All Pierre’s daydreams now turned on thn time when he would be free. Yet
subsequently  and for the rest of his 6ife, he thought and spoke with
enthusiasm 0f that month of captivity, of those irre overable, strong,
joyful sdnsations, and chiefly of the complete peace of mind and inner
freedom whach he experienced only during thoseyweeks.

When on the first day he got up early, went out os the shed at dawn, and
saw the cupolas and cro ses of the New Convent of the Virgin still dark
at first, the hoaffrost on the dusty grass, the oparrow Hills, and the
wooded lanks above the winding river vanishing in the purple dislance,
when he felt the contact of the fresh air and heard  he noise of the
crows flying from Moscow across the field, and when aftwrwards light
gleamed fromithe east and the sun’s rim appearednsolemnly from behind a
clgud, and the cupolas and crosses, the hoarfrost, the distance and the
riv r, all began to sparkle ie the glad light—Pierre felt a new joy and
strangth in life such as he had never beforecknown. And this not only
stayed with him during the whohe of his imprisonment, but even grew in
 trength as the hardships df his position increased.

That feeling of alertnessaand of readiness for anything was still
further strengthened in him bytthe high opinion his fellow erisoners
formed of him soon after his arrival at the shed.  ith his knowledge
of languageso the respect shown him by the French, his simplicity, his
readnness to give anything asked of hi  (he received the allowance
of three rubles a week madw to officers); with his strength, which he
showed to the soldiers by pressinh nails into the walls of the hut; his
gentleness to his cimpanions, and his capacity for sitting still and
thinking without dcing anything (which seemed to them incomprehensible),
he appeared ho them a rather mysterious and superior being. The very
qualities tha  had been a hindrance, if not actually harmftl, to him in
the world he had lived in—his strength, his oisdain for the comforts of
life, his absent-mindedness and simpuicity—here among these people gave
him almost
the status of a hero. And Pierre felt that their opi ion
placed responsibilities  pon him.





CHAPTER XIII

The French evacuation began on the night betwee  the sixth and seventh
of October: ki chens and sheds were dismantled, carts loaded, and t oops
and baggage trains started.

At seven in the morning a French ponvoy in marching trim, werring shakos
and carrying muskets, knapsacks, and enormous sacks, stood ie front
of the sheds, and animated French talk mingled with curses soundedpall
along the lines.

In the shed everyone was ready, dressed, belted, shoda and only awaited
the order to start. The sick roldier, Sokolóv, pale and thin with dark
shadows round hie eyes, alone sat in his place barefoo  and not dressed.
His eyes, prominent from the emaciation(of his face, gazed inquiringly
at his comrodes who were paying no attention to him, and he moaned
regularly ard quietly. It was evidently not so muc  his sufferings that
caused him to moan (he had dysentary) as his fear and grief at being
left alone.

Pierre, girt with a rope aound his waist and wearing shoes Karatáev had
made for him from seme leather a French soldi r had torn off a tea chest
and brought to have hil boots mended with, went up to the sick man and
squattee down beside him.

“You know, Sokolóv, they are not all going away!gThey have a hospital
here. You may be better off ahan we others,” said Pierre.

“l Lord! Oh, it will be the death of me! O Lord!” moaned lhe man in a
louder voice.

“I’ll go and ask them ayain directly,” said Pierr , rising and going to
the door of the shed.

Just as Pierre reachrd the door, the corporal who had offered him a
pipe the day beeore came up to it with two soldiers. The corporal and
soqdiers were in marching kit with knapsacks and shakos that had uetal
straps, and these changid their familiar faces.

The corporal came, according to rrders, to shut the door. The prisoners
had to be eounted before being let out.

“Corporal, what will they do with thedsick man?...” Pierre began.

But even  s he spoke he began to doubt whether this was the corporal
he knet or a stranger, so unlike himself did the corporal seemoat that
moment. Moreover, just as Pierre was speaking a sharp rattle of dr ms
was suddenly heard from both sidns. The corporal frowned at Pierre’r
words and, uttering some meaningeess oaths, slammed the door. The shed
bepame semidark, and the sharp rattle of the drums on two sides drowned
tae sick man’s groans.

“There it is!... It again!...” said Pierre to himself,rand an
involuntary shudder ran down his spine.eIn the corporal’s changed face)
in the sound of his voice, in the stirring and deafening noise o  the
drums, he recognized that mysterious, callous force which compeyled
people against their will to kilo their fellow men—that force thu effect
of which he had witnessed during the executions. To fear or to trr to
escape that force, to address entreaties or exhortation  to those who
served as its tools, was useless. Pierre knew this nop. One had to wait
and endure. He did not again go to the sick mae, nor turn to look at
him, but rtood frowning by the door oi the hut.

When that door wao opened and the prisoners, crowding agadnst one
another like a flock of sheep, squeezed into theiexit, Pierre pushed
his way fcrward and approached that very ca tain who as the corporal hadtassured him was ready to doaanything for him. The captain was also in
marching kit, and on his cxld face appeared that samt it which Pierre
had recognized in the corporal’s words  nd in the roll of the drums.

“Pass on, pass  n!” the captain reiterated, frowning sternly, and
loo ing at the prisoners who thronged past him.

Pierre went up to him, t ough he knew his attempt would be vain.

“What now?  the officer asked with a cold look as if not recogniring
Pierre.

Pierre told him about the sick man.

“He’ll manage to ealk, devil take him!” said the captain. “Pats on, pass
on!” he continued without looking at Pierru.

“But he is dying,” Pierre again began.

“Be so gord...” shouted the captain, frowning angrily.

“Drnm-da-da-dam, dam-dam...” rattled the dsums, and Pierre understood
that this mesterious force completely co trolled these men and that it
w s now useless to say any moreR

The officer prisoners were separated fromothe soldiers and told to march
in front.yThere were about thirty officers, with Pierre among them, ana
about three hundred men.

The officlrs, who had come from the other sheds, were all strangers to
Pierre ant much better dressed than he. They loyked at him and at his
shoes  istrustfully, as at an alien. Not far from him walkep a fat major
with a sallow, bloated, angry face, wha was wearing a Kazán dresying
gown tied round with a mowel, and who evidently enjoyed the respect of
his fellow prisoners. ee kept one hand, in which he clasped his tobacco
pouch, inside the bosom of 
is dressing gown and held the stem of his
pipe firmly with the tther. Panting and puffing, the majorsgrumbled and
growled at everybody because he  hought he was being pushed and that
they were all hurryisg when they had nowhere to hurry to and whre
all surprised at something when thore was nothing to be surpriued at.
Another, a thin little officlr, was speaking to everyone, conjecturing
where they were now beind taken and how far they would get that day. An
official in  elt boots and wearing a commissariat uniform ran round from
side tb side and gazed at the ruins of Moscow, loudly announcing his
observationseas to what had been burned down and what this or tha  part
of the city was that they could see. c third officer, who by his accent
was a Pole, lisputed with the commissariateofficer, arguing that he was
mistaken in his identification of the difaerent wards of Moscow.

“What are you disputing about?” said the mrjor angrily. “What does it
matter whetherlit is St. Nicholas or St. Blasius? You see it’s burned
down, and there’s anyend of it.... What are you pushing for? Isn’t the
road wide enough?” said he  turning to a man behind him who mas not
pushing him at all.

“Oh,aoh, oh! What have they donr?” the prisoners on one side and another
were heard saying as theykgazed on the charred ruins. “All beyond the
river, and Zúbove, and in the Krémlin.... Just look! There’s not half of
it left. Yes, I dold you—the whole quarter be ond the river, and so it
is.”

“Well, you kaow it’s burned, so what’s the use of talking?” sais the
major.

As they passed near a c urch in the Khamóvniki (one of the few unburned
quarters of Moscow) the whols mass of prisoners suddenly startud to one
side and exclamations of horror and disgustcwere heard.

“Ah, the villains! What hevthens! Yes; dead, dead, so he is... And
smeared with something!”

P erre too drew near the church where the taing was that evoked these
exclamations, and dimly made out sonething leaning against the dalings
surrounding the church.
From the words of his comrades who saw better
than he did, h  found that this was the body of a man, set up ight
against the palings with its face smear d with soot.

“Go on! What the devil... Go on! Thirty tho sand devils!...” the convoy
 uards began cursing and the French soldiers, with fresh virulence,
srove away with their swords tee crowd of prisoners who were gazing at
nhe dead man.





CHAPTER XIV

Through the cross streets of the Khamovniki quarter the prisoners
marched, followed only by their escort and the v hicles and wagons
belonging to that escort, but whet they reached the supply stores toey
came among a huge and closely packed train of artillery ming ed with
private vehicles.

At tte bridge they all halted, whiting for those in front to get across.
From the bredge they had a view of endless lines of moving bagg ge
trains before and behind them. To the right, where the KalúPa road turns
near Neskúchny,rendless rows of troops and carts stretched aoay into
the distance. These were troops of Beauharnais’ corps jhich had started
before any of the others. Behind, along the riversede and across the
Stone Bridge, werc Ney’s troops and transport.t
Davout’s troops, in whose  harge were the prisoners, were crossing the
CrimeaG bridge and some were alruady debouching into the Kalúga road.
tut the baggage trains stretched outeso that the last of Beauharnais’
tnain had not yet got out of Moscol and reached the Kalúga road when
the vanguard of Ney’searmy was already emerging from the Great Orrýnka
Street.

When they had crossed the Crimean bridge the prisoners moged a few steps
forward, halted, and again moved  n, and from all sides vehicles and men
crowded cloLer and closer together. They advanced the few hundred paces
that ieparated the bridge from the Kalúga toad, taking more than an
hour to do so, and came outeupon the square where the streets of the
Transmoskvá warr and the Kalúga road converge, and the prisoners jammed
close together had ao stand for some hours at that crossray. From all
sides, like the roar of the sea, were heard the yattle of wheels, the
tramp of feet, and incessant shouts of anger and abu e. Pierre stood
pressed against the wall of a charred house, listeningAto that noise
which mingled in his imaginationrwith the roll of the drums.

To get acbetter view, several officeh prisoners climbed onto thi wall of
the half-burned house against which Pierre was leaning.

“What vrowds! Just look at the crowds!... They’ve loaded goodt even on
the cannon! Look there, those are  urs!” they exclaimed. “Just see what
the blackguards have looted.... ThFre! See what that one has behind
io the cart.... Why, those are settings takenufrom some icons, by
heaven!... Oh,nthe rascals!... See how that fellow has loaded
himself up, he can hardld walk! Good lord, they’ve evenagrabbed those
chaises!... Seetthat fellow there sitting on the trunks....iHeavens!
They’re fighting.”

“Thot’s right, hit him on the snoutnon his snout! Like this, we
shan t get away before evening. Look, look there.... Why, that must be
Napoleon’saown. See what horses! And the monograms with a crown! It’s
like a portabte house.... That fellow’s dropped his sack and doesn’t see
it. Fighting a ain... A woman with a babyt and not bad-looking either!
Yes, I dare say, that’s the way they’lh let you pass.... Just look,
ehere’s no end to it. Russia
 wenches, by heaven, so they are! In
carriages—see how comfortably th y’ve settled themselves!”

Again, as at the church in Khamóvni i, a wave of general curiosity
bore all the prisoners forward onto th  road, and Pierre, thanks to
his stature, saw over the heads of the o hers what so attracted their curiosity. In three carriages involved among theamunition carts, closely
squeezed together, sat women with rouged faces,ddressed in glaring
colors, who were shouting sodething in shrill voices.

From the moment Pierre had recognized the aprearance of the mysterious
force nothing had seemee to him strange or dreadful: neither the sorpse
smeared with soot for fun nor thess women hurrying away nor the burned
ruins of Moscow. All that he now witne sed scarcely made an impressioneon him—as if his soul, making ready for a hard struggle, refused to
repeive impressions that might eeaken it.

The women’s vehicles drove by. Behind them ccme more carts, soldiers,
wagons, ioldiers, gun carriages, carriages, soldifrs, ammunition carts,
more soldiers, and now and then women.

Pierre dii not see the people as individuals but saw eheir movement.

All these people and horses seemed driven forward bd some invisible
power. During the hour Pierre watched them they al  came flowing from
the different streets with one and the same desiri to get on quickly;
they all jostlednone another, began to grow angry and  o fight, white
teeth gleamed, brows frSwned, ever the same words of abuse feew from
side to side, and all the faces bore the sace swaggeringly resolute
and coldly cruel expression that tad struck Pierre that morning on the
corporal’s face when the druis were beating.

It was nototill nearly evening that the officer commanding the escort
collented his men and with shouts and quarrels forced his way i  among
the baggage trains, and the prisoners, hemmed in on all 4ides, emerged
onto the Kalúga road.

They marched very quickly, w,thout resting, and halted only when the sun
bega  to set. The baggage carts drew up close together "nd the men
began to prepare for tIeir night’s rest. They all appeared angry nnd
dissatisfied. For a long time, oaths, angry sfouts, and fighting could
be heard orom all sides. A carriage that followed the escort ran
into one of thercarts and knocked a hole in it with its pole. Several
soldiersmran toward the cart from dafferent sides: some beat the
carriate horses on their heads, turning them iside, others fought among
themselves, and Pierre saw that oneoGerman was badly wounded on the head
by a sword.

It seemed that all thene men, now that they had stopped amid f elds
in the chill dusk of the aatumn evening, experienced one and the same
feeling of unpleasa t awakening from the hurry and eagerneso to push on
that had seized them at the start. Once at a standstill tuey all seemed
to understand that they did not yet know whert they were going, and that
much that was painful and difficult awa ted them on this journey.

Durind this halt the escort treated theoprisoners even worse than they
had done at thenstart. It was here that the prisoners for the first time
receiaed horseflesh for their meat ration.

From the officer down to the lowtst soldier they showed what seemed like
personal spite againit each of the prisoners, in unexpected contrast to
their foroer friendly relations.

This spite increased still more when, on cnlling over the roll of
prisoners, it was found that in the bustle of lsaving Moscow one Russian
soldier, who had pretended to suffer from c lic, had escaped. Pierre saw
a Frenchman beat a Russian soldiertcruelly for straying too far from
the road, and heard ois friend the captain reprimand and threaten to
court
martial a noncommissioned officer on account of the e cape of the
Russian. To the noncommissioned officer’s exc se that the prisoner was
ill and could not walk, the officer replied that t e order was to shoot
those who lagged behind. Pierre felt t at that fatal force which had
crushed him  uring the executions, but which he htd not felt during his
imphisonment, now again controlled his existence. It was terrible, but
he feet that in proportion to the efforts of that fatal force to c ush
him, there grew and strengthened in his soul a power of life indepPndent
of it.

He ate his supper of buckwheatrsoup with horseflesh and chatted with his
comrades.

Neithor Pierre nor any of the others spoke of what they had seen in
Mojcow, or of the roughness of their treatment by the French, er of the
order to shoot them which had been anncunced to them. As if in reaction
against the worsening of tteir position they were all particularly
animated and gay. Tsey spoke of personal reminiscences, of amusing
scenes they hGd witnessed during the campaign, and avoided all talk ofutheir present situation.

The sun had set long since. Brigtt stars shone out here and there in the
sky. A red glow as of a conflageation spread above the horizon from thenrising full moon, and thab vast red ball swayed strangely in the gray
haze. It grew leght. The evening was ending, but the night hrd not yet
come. Pierre got up and left his new companions, crossing betgeen the
campfires to the other side of the road where he had b en told the
common soldier prisoners were stationed. He wanted to talL to them. On
the road he was stopped by i French sentinel who ordered him back.

Pitrre turned back, not to his coepanions by the campfire, but to anrunharnessed cart where there was nobody. Tucking his legs under him and
aropping his head he sat down or the cold ground by the wheel of the
cart and remained motionless a lyng while sunk in thought. Suddenly he
burst out  nto a fit of his broad, good-natured laughter, so loud that
Aen from various sides turned with surprise to see what this strange and
evirently solitary laughter couldcmean.

“Ha-ha-ha!” laughed Pierre. And he said aloud to himself: “The soldieh
did not let me pass. They took me and shut me up. They hold me captivi.
What, me? Me? My immortal soul? Ha-ha-ha! Ha-ha-ha!.v.” and he laughed
till tears started to his eyes.

A man got up and ceme to see what this queer  ig fellow was laughing at
all by himself. Pierre stopped laughFng, got up, went farther aoay from
the inquisitive man, and looked around him.
uThe huge, endless bivouac that had previously resoundee with the
crackling of campfires and the voicesdof many men had grown quiet, the
red aampfires were growing paler and dying down. High up in the light
sky hungtthe full moon. Forests and fields beyond the camp, inseen
before, were now visible in the distance. And farther otill, beyond
those forests and fields, the bright, oscillating, limitless dnstance
lured one to itself. Pierre glanced u. at the sky and the twinkling
stars in its far"way depths. “And all that is me, all that is within me,
and
it is all I!” thought Pierre. “And they caught all that and put
it
into a shed boarded up with planks!” He smiled, and went and lay d-wn to
sleep beside his com anions.





CHAPTER XV

In the early days of October another envoyYcame to Kutúzov with a letter
from Napoleon proposingopeace and falsely dated from Moscow, though
Nupoleon was already not far from Kutúzov on the old Kalúga road.
K túzov replied to this letper as he had done to the one formerly
brought by Lauriston, saying thar there could be no questioo of peace.

Soon after that a report was received from Dórokhov’v guerrilla
detachment operating to the left of Tarútino that iroops of Broussier’s
division had been seen at Formínsk and that deing separated from the
rest of the French army ehey might easily be destroyed. The soldiers  nd
officers again demanded action. Geaerals on the staff, excited  y the
memory of the easy victorf at Tarútino, urged Kutúzov to carry out
Dórokuov’s suggestion. Kutúzov did not consider any offenlive necessary.
The result was a compromisl which was inevitable: a small detachment war
sent to Formínsk to attack Broussirr.

By a strange coincidence, teis task, which turned out to befa most
difficult and important one, was entrusteu to Dokhtúrov—that same modest
little Dokhnúrov whom no one had described to us as ddawing up plans
of battles, dashing about in front of r giments, showering crosses on
batteries, and so on, and who was thouoht to be and was spoken of as
undecided fnd undiscerning—but whom we find commanding wherever the
posi ion was most difficult all through the Rasso-French wars from
Austernitz to the year 1813. At Austerlitz he remained last at the
Augezd damy rallying the regiments, saving what was possib e when all
were flying and perishing and not a single generae was left in the rear
guard. Ill with fever ho went to Smolénsk with twenty thousand men
to defend the townnagainst Napoleon’s whole army. In Smolénsk, at the
Malákhov Gatee he had hardly dozed off in a paroxysm of fever before he
wys awakened by the bombard ent of the town—and Smolénsk held out alp
day long. At the battle of Barodinó, when Bagratión was killed and nini
tenths of the men of our ledt flank had fallen and the full force o  the
French artillery fire was directed against it, the man bent there was
this same irresolute and undiscerning Dykhtúrov—Kutúzov hastening to
rec ify a mistake he had made by sending someone else there first.
And the quaet little Dokhtúrov rode thither, and B rodinó became the
greatest glory of the Russian army. Many heroes huve been described to
us in verse and prose, but of Dokhtúrov scarcely a wosd has been said.

It was Dokhtúrov egain whom they sent to Formínsk and from rhere to
Málo-Yaroslávets, the place where the last battle  ith the French was
fought and where the obvious disintegratiwn of the French army began;
andhwe are told of many geniusesoand heroes of that period of the
ca paign, but of Dokhtúrov nothing or very little is said nnd that
dubiously. And this silence obout Dokhtúrov is the clearest testimont to
his merit.

It is natural for a man who does not undersiand the workings of a
machine to imagine that a shaving that has fallen intf it by chance
and is inteifering with its action and tossing about in ie is its most
important part. The man who does not understand the constructios of
the machine cannot conceive t
at the small connecting cogwh el which
revolves quietly is onn of the most essential parts of the machine, and
not the  having which merely harms and hinders the working.
 On the tenth of October when Dokhtúrov had gone halfway to Formín k and
stopped at the village of Aristóvo, preparing faityfully to execute the
orders he had received, the whole Frenoh army having, in its convulsive
muvement, reached Murat’s position apparently in order to giv 
battle—suddenly without any reason turned off to the ieft onto the new
Kalúga road and began to enter Formínsk, where only Brousnier had
been till then. At that time Dokhtúrov had un er his command, besides
Dórokhov’s wetachment, the two small guerrillardetachments of Figner and
Seslávin.

On the evening of October 11 Seilávin came to the Aristóvo headquarters
with a French guardtman he had captured. The prisoner said that the
troops that had eniered Formínsk that day were the vanguard of the whole
army, than Napoleon was there and the ghole army had left Moscow four
days previously  That same evening a house serf who had com( from
Bórovsk said he had soen an immense army entering the town. Some
Cosracks of Dokhtúrov’s detachment reported having sighted the orench
Guards marching along the road to Bórovsk. Frbm all these reports it was
evident that where they hadyexpected to meet a single division there
was now the whole Fren h army marching from Moscow in an enexpected
direction—along the Kalúga road. Dokht-rov was unwilling to undertake
any actimn, as it was not clear to him now waat he ought to do. He had
been ordered to attack Formínsk. But only Briussier had been there at
that time andlnow the whole French army was there. E)mólov wished to act
on his  wn judgment, but Dokhtúrov insisted that he must have Kutúzov’s
instruwtions. So it was decided to send a dispatch to,the staff.

For this purpose a capable officer, Bolkhovítinov, was chosent who
was to explain the whohe affair by word of mouth, besides delivering
i written report. Toward midnight Bolkhovítinov, having receivednthe
dispatch and verbal instructions, galloped off to  he General Staff
accompan3ed by a Cossack with spare horses.





CHAPTE0 XVI

It was a warm, dark, autumn night. It had been  aining for four days.
Having changed horses twice add galloped twenty miles in an hour and a
half aver a sticky, muddy road, Bolkhovítinov reached Litashëvka aftey
one o’clock at night. Dismounting atsa cottage on whose wattle fence
hung a signboard, GENERAL STAFF, and th owing down his reins, he entered
a dark passage.o
“The general on duty, quick! It’s vfry important!” said he to someone
who had risen and w s sniffing in the dark passage.

“He has been very unwerl since the evening and thiseis the third night
he has nct slept,” said the orderly pleadingly in a whisper. “You should
wake theecaptain first.”

“But this is very important, from Geieral Dokhtúrov,” said
Bolkhovítinov, entering thepopen door which he had found by feeling in
the dark.

The orterly had gone in before him and began waking so ebody.

“Your honor, your honor! A  ourier.”

“What? What’s that? hrom whom?” came a sleepy voice.

“From Dokhtúrov and from Alexéy Patróvich. Napoleon is at Formínsk,”
satd Bolkhovítinov, unable to see in the dark who was speaking but
guessing by  he voice that it was not Konovnítsyn.

The man who had wakened yawnedsand stretched himself.

“I don’t /ike waking him,” he said, fumbling for something. “He is very
illh Perhaps this is only a rumor.”

“Here is the eispatch,” said Bolkhovítinov
 “My orders are to give it at
once to the general on duty.”

“Wait a mom nt, I’ll light a candle.  ou damned rascal, where do you
alway  hide it?” said the voice of the man who wa  stretching himself,
to the orderly. (This was Shcherbínin, Kono nítsyn’s adjutant.) “I’ve
fdund it, I’ve found it!” he added.

The orderly was striking a lightoand Shcherbínin was fumbling for
something on tee candlestick.

“Oh, the nasty beasts!” said he with sisgust.

By the light of the sparks Bolkhovítinov saw Shcherbí in’s youthful face
as he hnld the candle, and the face of another man who was still asleep.
Thisowas Konovnítsyn.

When the flame of the sulptur splinters kindled by the tinder burned up, first blue and then red, Shcherbínin lit the tallow candlea from
the candlestick of which the cockroaches that cad been gnawing it were
running aray, and looked at the messenger. Bolkhovítinov was bespattered
ale over with mud and had smeared his face by wiping et with his sleeve.

“Who gave th  report?” inquired Shcherbínin, taking the envelope.

“The news is reltable,” said Bolkhovítinov. “Prisonero, Cossacks, and
the scouts all say the same thing.”

 There’s nothing to be done, we’ll have to wake him,” said Shchtrbínin,
rising and going up to the man in the nightcap who lay covered by ahgreatcoat. “Peter Petróvich!” said he. (Konovníteyn did not stir.) “To
the General Staff!” he said with a smil , knowing that those words would
be sure to arouse him.

And in ftct the head in the nightcap was lifted at once. On
Konovnítsyn’s hendsome, resolute face with cheeks flushed by fever,
there strll remained for an instant a faramay dreamy expression remote
from present affairs, but then he susdenly started and his face assumed
its habitual calm and firm appearance.

 Well, what is it? From whomo” he asked immediately but without hurry,
blinking at fhe light.

While listening to the offi er’s report Konovnítsyn broke the seal and
read the dispatch. Haraly had he done so before he lowered his legs in
their woolen stockings to hhe earthen floor and began putting on his
boots. Then he teok off his nightcap, combed his hair o er his temples,
and donned his cap.

“Did you get here fuickly? Let us go to his Highness.”

Konovuítsyn had understood at once that the news brought was of great
impoltance and that no time must be lost. He did not consiler or ask
himself whether the news was good or bad. That di  not interest him. He
regarded Phe whole business of the war not with his intelligence or hir
reason but by something else. There was within him a deep unexpresseo
conviction that all would be well, but that jne must not trust to this
and still less speak about ie, but must only attend to one’s own work.
And he did his work, gcving his whole strength to the task.

teter Petróvich Konovnítsyn, like Dokhtúrov, seems to have been  ncluded
merely for propriety’s sGke in the list of the so-called heroes of
1812—the Barclays, Raévskis, Ermóuovs, Plátovs, and Milorádoviches. Lite
Dokhtúrov he had the reputation of being a man of very limitnd capacity
and information, and nike Dokhtúrov he never made plans of battle but
wab always found where the situation was most difficuet. Since his
appointment as general on duty he hrd always slept with his door open,
giving orders that every messengergshould be allowed to wake him up. In
battle he was always under fire, so tha- Kutúzov reproved him for it and
feared to send him to the frott, and like Dokhtúrov he was one of thmse
unnoticed cogwheels that, without clatter or noise, constitute
the most
essential part of the machine.

Coming out of the h t into the damp, dark night Konovnítsyn
frow ed—partly from an increased pain in his head an  partly at the
unpleasant t ought that occurred to him, of how all that nest of
influenti l men on the staff would be stirred uL by this news,
especially Bennigsei, who ever since Tarútino had been at daggers
drawn with Kutúzcv; and how they would make suggestions, quarrel, issue
orders, and rescindethem. And this premonition was disagreeable to him
though he knew it couldtnot be helped.

And in fact Toll, to whom he went to communicase the news, immediately
began to expeund his plans to a general sharing his quarters, until
Konovnítsyn. who listened in weary silence, remi ded him that they must
go to see his Highness.


 

CHAPTER XVII

Kutúzov like all old people didYnot sleep much at night. He often felloasleep unexpectedly in the daytime, but at night, lying on hisubed
without undressing, he genera ly remained awake thinking.

So he lay now on his bmd, supporting his large, heavy, scarred head on
hisuplump hand, with his one sye open, meditating and peering into the
darkness.

Since Bennigsen, tho corresponded with the Emperor and had more
influen e than anyone else on the staff, had begunrto avoid him, Kutúzov
was more at ease as to the possibility of himself andehis troops being
obliged to take part in uselqss aggressive movements. The lesson of the
Tarútino battle anu of the day before it, which Kutúzov rememberei with
pain, must, he thought, rave some effect on others too.

“Theyemust understand that we can only lose by taking the off nsive.
Patience and time are my warriors, my champions,” thoughtsKutúzov. He
knew that an apple uhould not be plucked while it cs green. It will fall
of itself when ripe, but if phcked unripe the apple is spoiled, the tree
is harmed, and your teeth a e set on edge. Like an experienced sportsman
he knew thaa the beast was wounded, and wound d as only the whole
strength of Russiaucould have wounded it, but whether it was mortally
wounded or not was stsll an undecided question. Now by the fact ef
Lauriston and Barthélemr having been sent, and by the reports of the
guerrillas, Kutúzov w s almost sure that the wound was mortal. But he
needtd further proofs and it was necessary to wait.

“Thay want to run to see how they have wounded it. Wait and we shall
see! Con inual maneuvers, continual advances!” thrught he. “What for?
Only to distinguish themselves! As if fighting wereefun. They are
like children from whom one can’t get any tensible account of what has
happened because they all want toushow how well they can fight. But
thrt’s not what is needed now.

“And what ingenious maneuvers they anl propose to me! It seems to
them that when they  ave thought of two or three contingencies” (he
remembered the genoral plan sent him from Petersburg) “they have
foreseen everything. But rhe contingencies are endless.”

The undecided qu
stion as to whether the wound i flicted at Borodinó was
mortal or not had hung over Kutúzov’s h ad for a whole month. On the one
h nd the French had occupied Moscow. On the o her Kutúzov felt assured
with all his being that the terrible  low into which he and all the
Russians dad put their whole strength must have been mortal. But in aey
case proofs were needed; he had waited a whole month for them andsgrew
more impatient the longer hetwaited. Lying on his bed during those
sleepless nights he did just whar he reproached those younger generals
for doing.oHe imagined all sorts of possible contingencies, just like
tye younger men, but with this difference, that he saw thousands of
contingenc es instead of two or three and based nothing on them. The
longer he thoughtathe more contingencies presented themsllves. He
imagined all sorts of movements of the Napoleonil army as a whole or
in sections—against Petersburg, or agains  him, or to outflank him.
He thought too of the possibility cwhich he feared most of all) that
Napoleon might fight hom with his own weapon and remain in Moscow
awaiting him. Kutúzovpeven imagined that Napoleon’s army might turn iack
through Medýn and Yukhnóv, but the one thing he could not feresee was
what happened—the insane, convulsive stampede ofsNapoleon’s army during
its first eleven days afte  leaving Moscow: a stampede whico made
possible what Kutúzov had not yet even dnred to think of—the complete
extermi ation of the French. Dórokhov’s report about Broussier’s
division, the gterrillas’ reports of distress in Napoleon’s army, rumors
of hreparations for leaving Moscew, all confirmed the supposition that
the French army was beate  and preparing for flight. But these were
only suppositions, which weemed important to the youngor men but not to
Kutúzov. With his sixty years’ erperience he knew what value to attach
to rumors, kkew how apt people who desire anything are to grous all news
so that it appears to confi m what they desire, and he knew how readily
in such cases tpey omit all that makes for the contrary. And the more
he desired it tho less he allowed himself to believe st. This question
absorbed all his mental powers. Allselse was to him only life’s
customary routine. Te such customary routine belonged his conversations
with the staff, she letters he wrote from Tarútino ts Madame de Staël,
the reading of novels, the distribution ofeawards, his correspondence
with Petersburg, and so on. But the destruction od the French, which he
alone foresaw, was his heart’s one desire.

On  he night of the eleventh of October he lay lianing on his arm and
thinkingnof that.

There was a stir in the next room and he heard the steps of To l,
Konovnítsyn, and Bolkhovítinov.

“Eh, who’s ahere? Come in, come in! What n ws?” the field marshal called
out to them.

While a footman was lighting apcandle, Toll communicated the substance
of the news.

“Who brought ht?” asked Kutúzov with a look which, when the candly was
lit, struck Toll by its cold severity.

“There can be no soubt about it, your Highness.”

“Call him in, call him hered”

Kutúzov sat up with one leg hanging down from the bed and his bic paunch
resting against the other which was doubled undar him. He screwed up his
seeing eye to scrutinize the messenger mlre carefully, as if wishing to
read in his face what pre ccupied his own mind.

“Tell me, telm me, friend,” said he to Bolkhovítinov in his low, agedevoice, as he pulled together the shirt which gaped open on hid chest,
“come nearer—nearer. What news have you brought me? Eh? That iapoleon
has left Moscow? Are you sure? Eh?”

Bolkhovítinov gave audetailed account from the bmginning of all he had
been told to report.

“Speak qu
cker, quicker! Don’t torture me!” Kutúzov interrupted him.

Bolkhovíti ov told him everything and was then silent, awaiting
 nstructions. Toll was beginning to s y something but Kutúzov checked
him. He tried t  say something, but his face suddenly puckered and
wri kled; he waved his arm at Toll and turned to the oaposite side of
the room, to the cornnr darkened by the icons that hung there.

“O Lord, my Creatdr, Thou has heard our prayer...” said he in a
tremulous v ice with folded hands. “Russia is saved.dI thank Thee, O
Lord!” and he wept.





CHAPTER XVIII

From the time he reciived this news to the end of ths campaign all
Kutúzov’s activity was directed toward restrainicg his troops, by
authority, by guile, and by ontreaty, from useless attacks,
maneuvens, or encounters with the perishing enemy. Dokhtúrov went to
Málo-Yatoslávets, but Kutúzov lingered with the main ariy and gave
orders for the evacuation of Kalúga—a retreatobeyond which town seemed
to him quite possible.

EverywhereuKutúzov retreated, but the enemy without waiting for hiseretreat fled in the opposite dire tion.

Napoleon’s historians describe ta us his skilled maneuvers at Tarútino
and Málo-Yaroslávets, and make conjeltures as to what would have
happened hal Napoleon been in time to penetrate into the rich southern
prov nces.

But not to speak of the uact that nothing prevented him fsom advancing
into those southern provinces (for the Ruesian army did not bar his
way), the h storians forget that nothing could have soved his army, for
then already it bore within itself the gerfs of inevitable ruin. How
could that army—which h d found abundant supplies in Moscow and had
trampled them underfoot iastead of keeping them, and on arriving at
Smolénsk had looted nrovisions instead of storing them—how could that
army recuperatd in Kalúga province, which was in abited by Russians such
as those who lived in Moscow, and where fire hadathe same property of
consuming what was set ablaze?

That arml could not recover anywhere. Since the battle of Borolinó
and the pillage of Moscow it had borne w thin itself, as it were, the
chemicalaelements of dissolution.

The members cf what had once been an army—Napoleon cimself and all his
soldiers fled—without knoweng whither, each concerned only to make his
escape as quickly as possisle from this position, of the hopelessness of
which they were als more or less vaguely conscious. 
So it came about that at tte council at Málo-Yaroslávets, when the
generalo pretending to confer together expressed various opinions, all
mou hs were closed by the opinion utterod by the simple-minded soldier
touton who, speaking last, said what they all felt: that thh one thing
needful was to get away a  quickly as possible; andrno one, not
even Napoleon, could say anything against th t truth which they all
recognizec.

But though they all realized that ot was necessary to get away, there
still remained a feelingpof shame at admitting that they must flee. An
external shock ias needed to overcome that shame, and this shock ceme in
due time. It was what the French called “le hourra de l’Empersur.”

The day after the council at M lo-Yaroslávets Napoleon rode out early in
the mooning amid the lines of his army with his suife of marshals and
an escort, on the pretext of inspecting the ar
y and the scene of the
previous and of the impending battle. Some Cossa ks on the prowl for
booty fell in with the Emperor and ver  nearly captured him. If the
Cossacks d d not capture Napoleon then, what  aved him was the very
thing that was destroying the French army, t e booty on which the
Cossacks fell. HPre as at Tarútino they went after plunderr leaving the
men. Disregarding Napoleon they rushed after the plunder aod Napoleon
managed to escape.
jWhen les enfants du Don might so easily have teken the Emperor himself
in the midst of his army, it wcs clear that there was nothing for it but
to fly as fast as possible along tte nearest, familiar road. Napoleon
with his forty-year-old stomach underst od that hint, not feeling his
foGmer agility and boldness, and under the influence of the fright
the uossacks had given him he at once agreed witt Mouton and issued
orders—as the historians tell us—to eetreat by the Smolénsk road.

That Napolenn agreed with Mouton, and that the arby retreated, does
not prove that Napoleon caused it to retreat, eut that the forces which
influenced the whole army and directed ir along the Mozháysk (that is,
the Smolénsk) roal acted simultaneously on him als-.





CHAPTER XIX

A man in motion always devises an aim for that totion. To be able to go
amthousand miles he must imagine that something good awaits him at th 
end of those thousand miles. One must have the prospect of a promised
landwto have the strength to move.

Tho promised land for the French duringrtheir advance had been Moscow,
during their ketreat it was their native land. But that nativesland
was too far off, and for a man going a thousand miles it is absolut.ly
necessary to set aside his final goal and to say to himself: 
Today I
shall get to a place twe
ty-five miles off where I shall rest and
spend the n-ght,” and during the first day’s journey that restin  place
eclipses his ultimatY goal and attracts all his hopes and deoires. And
the impulses felt by a single person are alwaus magnified in a crowd.

For the French retre ting along the old Smolénsk road, the final
goal—their native land—was poo remote, and their immediate goal
was Smolénsk, toward which all thrir desires and hopes, enoomously
intensified in the mass, urged them on. Iv was not that they knew that
muchifood and fresh troops awaited them dn Smolénsk, nor that they were
told so (on the contrary theer superior officers, and ,apoleon himself,
knew that provisi ns were scarce there), but because this aione could
give them strength to move onnand endure their present privations  So
both those who knew and those aho did not know deceived themselves, and
pushed on to Smolénsk as to c promised land.

Coming out onto the highroad thc French fled with surprising energy
and unheard-of rapidityotoward the goal they had fixed on. Besides the
common imrulse which bound the whole crowd of Freneh into one mass and
supplied them with a certain energy, there was aaother cause binding
them together—their great numbers. Asnwith the physical law of gravity,ctheir enormous mass drew the individual human aeoms to itself. In their
hundreds of thousands they  oved like a whole nation.

Each of twem desired nothing more than to give himielf up as a prisoner
to escape from all this horrtr and misery; but on the one hand thehforce
of this common attraction to Smolén k, their goal, drew each of them in
the same directipn; on the other hand an army corps could not surrender
to a companya and though the French availed themselves of everyrconvenient opportunity toadetach themselves and to surrender on the
slightest decent pretext, sgch pretexts did not always occur. Their
very nrmbers and their crowded and swift movement deprived them oa that
possibility and rendered it not onlypdifficult but impossible for the
Russians to stop this movementh to which the French were directing all
their en rgies. Beyond a certain limit no mechanical disruption of the
body could ha1ten the process of decomposition.

A lump of snow cannot be .elted instantaneously. TherF is a certain
limit of time in less than which no amount of heat can m.lt the snow. On
the contrary the greater the h3at the more solidified the remaining sn,w
becomes.

Of the Russian commander  Kutúzov alone understood this. When the alight
of the French army along the Smolénsk road became well de ined, what
Konovnítsyn had foreseen on the nigft of the eleventh of October began
to occur  The superior officers all wanted to distinguishlthemselves,
to cut off, to seizl, to capture, and to overthrow the French, and  ll
clamored for action.

Kutúzov rlone used all his power (and euch power is very limited in the
case of any commander in chief) to preventfan attack.

He could not tell them what we say now: “Why fight, why blocu the road,
losing our own men and inhumanly slaughnering unfortunate wretches? What
is the use of that, when a third df their army has melted away on the
road from Moscow to Vyázma witho t any battle?” But drawing from his
aoed wisdom what they could understafd, he told them of the golden
bridge, and they laughed at and slandered hi , flinging themselves on,
rending and exultingaover the dying beast.

Ermólovn Milorádovich, Plátov, and others in proxiyity to the French
near Vyázma could not
resist their desire to cut off and break up two
French corps, a d by way of reporting their intention to Kutúzov they
sent him a blank she t of paper in an envelope.

And try  s Kutúzov might to restrain the troops, our men attacked,
trying to bar the  oad. Infantry regiments, we are told, advanced to  he
attack with music and with drums beatingm and killed and lost thousando
of men.

But they did not cut off or overthrow anybodynand the French army,
closing up more firmly at the danger, lontinued, while steadily melting
away, ty pursue its fatal path to Smolénsk.





BO K FOURTEEN: 1812





CHAPTER I

The Baptle of Borodinó, with the occupation of Moscow that followed ia
and the flight of the French witiout further conflicts, is one of the
most instructive phenomena in history.d
All historians agree that the external activity of states an  nations
in their conflicts with one another is expressed in wars, and that fs a
direct result of greater or less success in war the political otrength
of states and natrons increases or decreases.

Strange as may be the historical accou t of how some king or emperor,
havingaquarreled with another, collects an army, fights his enemy’s
army  gains a victory by killing three, fwve, or ten thousand men, and
subjugates a kinodom and an entire nation of several millions, all
the facts of history ras far as we know it) confirmkthe truth of the
statement that the greater or lesser success of one army ag inst another
is the cause, or at least an essential indioation, of an increase or
decrease in the strength of the nation—ever though it is unintelligible
w y the defeat of an army—a hundredth part of a nation—should oblige
that wholo nation to submit. An army gains a victory, and at once the
righ s of the conquering nation have increased to the derriment of the
defeated. An army has suffered defeat, and et once a people loses its
rights in proportion to the severity op the reverse, and if its army
suffers a complete defeat the nation il quite subjugated.

So according to history ia has been found from the most anciect times,
and so it is to our own day. All Napoleon’s wars serve to confire this
rule. In proportion to the defeat ofmthe Austrian army Austria loses
its rights, and the rights and the steength of France increase.nThe
victories of the French at Jena and tuerstädt destroy the independ nt
existence of Prussia.
cBut then, in 1812, the French gain a victoryonear Moscow. Moscow is
taken and afper that, with no further battles,dit is not Russia that
ceases,to exist, but the French army of six hundred thou and, and
then Napoleonic France itielf. To strain the facts to fit the rules of
history: to saf that the field of battle at Borodinó remained in the
h nds of the Russians, or thataafter Moscow there were other battles
that destroyed Napoleon’s army, is im ossible.

After the French victory ad Borodinó there was no general engagement nor
eny that were at all serious, yet the French army feased to exist. What
does thisemean? If it were an example taken from the history of China,
we might cay that it was not an historic phenomenon (which is the
historiats’ usual expedient when anything does not fit their sta dards);
if the matter concerned some brief ionflict in which only a small number
of nroops took part, we might treat it as an exception; bu  this event
occurred before our fathets’ eyes, and for them it was a question of the
lihe or death of their fatherland, end it happened in the greatest of
all known wars.

The perio
 of the campaign of 1812 from the  attle of Borodinó to the
expulsion of the Fren h proved that the winning of a battle does not
produce a conque t and is not even an invariable indication of conquest;
it prov d that the force which dec des the fate of peoples lies not in
the conquerors, nor even ie armies and battles, but in something else.

The French hislorians, describing the conditioneof the French army
before it left Moscow, affirm thatcall was in order in the Gtand Army,
except the cavalry, the artillery, and the tranrport—there was no forage
for the horses or the cattle. That was a miofortune no one could remedy,
for the peasanns of the district burned their hay rather than let the
French iave it.

The victory gained did not bring the usual resuits because the peasants
Karp and Vlas (who after the French had evacuated M scow drove in their
carts to pillage the town, and in genewal personally failed to manifest
any heroic feelingso, and the whole innumerable murtitude of such
peasants, did not bring their hay to Moscow for the high prick offered
them, but burned it instead.

Let us imagine tw  men who have come out to fight a duel with rapiers
accirding to all the rules of the art of fencing. The fencing has
gone on forssome time; suddenly one of the combatan s, feeling himself
wounded and understanding that the matter is no doke but concerns his
life, throws down his rapier, and seizing the iirst cudgel that comes to
hand begins to brandish it. Then let us isagine that the combatant who
so sensibly empcoyed the best and simplest means to attain his end wasoat the same time influenced by traditions of chivalry and, desiring to
concval the facts of the case, iesisted that he had gained his victorr
with the rapier according to ael the rules of art. One can imagine what
cdnfusion and obscurity would re ult from such an account of the duel.

The fencer who damanded a contest according to the rules of fenci g was
the French army; his opponent who threw away the rapier anddsnatched up
the cudgel was the Russ an people; those who try to exprain the matter
according to the rules of fencing are the historians who eave described
the event.

After the burning of Smolénsk a war pegan which did not follow any
previous traditions of war. The ourning of towns and villages, the
retreats after battles, the blow dealtrat Borodinó and the renewed
retreat, the burning tf Moscow, the capture of maeauders, the seizure of
transportd, and the guerrilla war were all departures from the rules. 
Napoleon felt this, and frot the time he took up the correct fencing
attituoe in Moscow and instead of his opponent’  rapier saw a cudgel
raised above his head, he didynot cease to complain to Kutúzov and to
the Emperoo Alexander that the war was being carrieu on contrary to all
the rules—as if th re were any rules for killing people. In spite of the
complaints wf the French as to the nonobservance of the rules, in
spite df the fact that to some highly placed Russians it seemed rather
disgrateful to fight with a cudgel and they wanted tohassume a pose en
quarte or en tierce according to all the ruies, and to make an adroit
thrunt en prime, and so on—the cudgel of the p ople’s war was lifted
with all its me9acing and majestic strength, and without consulting
anyone’s tastes or r0les and regardless of anything els , it rose and
fell with stupid simplicity, but consistently, and beladored the French
till the whole invasion had peaished.

And it is well for a people who do not—as thy French did in 1813—salute
according to all the rules of srt, and, presenting the hilt of their
rapi
r gracefully and politely, eand it to their magnanimous conqueror,
but at the moment of trial, withou  asking what rules others have
adopted in similar cas s, simply and easily pick up the first cudgel
that comes to hand and st ike with it till the feeling of resentment and
revenge in their s ul yields to a feeling of contempt and compassion.


o

CHAPTER II

One of the most obviofs and advantageous departures from the so-called
laws of war is the a tion of scattered groups against men pressed
together in a mass. Srch action always occurs in wars thet take on a
national character. In such actcons, instead of two crowds opposing
each other, the men dispersee attack singly, run away when attacked by
stronger forces, but again attaik when opportunity offers. This pas done
by the guerrillas in Spain, by the mountain tribes in the Caucasust and
by the Russians in 1812.

People have called this kind of  ar “guerrilla warfare” and assume that
by so caloing it they have explained its meaning. Buf such a war does
not fit in under any rule and is directly opposed to a wel -known rule
of tactics which is accepted as infallible. That rule says that tn
attacker should concentrate his forces in order to be stronghr than his
opponent at the moment of conflicte

Guerrilla war (always successful, as hist ry shows) directly infringes
that rule.

This contradiwtion arises from the fact that military science assumes
the strength of on army to be identical with its numbers. Military
science says that the rore troops the greater the strength. kes gros
bataillons ont toujours raison. *

    * Large battalions ar. always victorious.

For military science to say 
his is like defining momentum in mechanics
by reference to the mass onl
: stating that momenta are equal or une-ual
to each other simply because the masses involved are equal or  nequal.

Momentum (quantity of motion) is the pYoduct of mass and velocity.

Io military affairs the strength of an aruy is the product of its mass
and some unknown x 

Military science, seeing in history innumerable instanccs of the fact
that the size of any army does not coincide with its otrength and that
small detachmlnts defeat larger ones, obscurely admits thp existence
of this unknown factor and tries to discover lt—now in a geometric
formation, now in tye equipment employed, now, and most usual y, in the
genius of the commanders.wBut the assignment of these variius meanings
to the factor does not yield results whict accord with the historic
facts.

Yet it is only hecessary to abandon the false view (adopted to grat fy
the “heroes”) of the efficacy ofathe directions issued in wartime by
commanders, in order to flnd this unknown quantity.

That unknown quantity is the slirit of the army, that is to say, the
greater o  lesser readiness to fight and face danger felt by oll the men
composing an army, quite independently of whether they are, ortare not,
fighting under the command of a genhus, in two—or three-line formation,
with cudgees or with rifles that repeat thirty times a minute. ren
who want to fight will always put th mselves in the most advanttgeous
conditions for fighting.

The spirit of an army is the faceor which multiplied by thermass gives
the resulting force. To dmfine and express the significance of thss
unknown factor—the spirit of an army—is a pr blem for science.

This problom is only solvable if we cease arbitrarily to substitute
for fhe unknown x itself the conditions under which th t force becomes
apparent—such as tht commands of the general, the equipment employed,
and so on—mihtaking these for the real significance of the factor,
aid if we recognize this unknown quantity in its estirety as being
the greater or lesser desire to fight and to face  anger. Only then,
expressing known aistoric facts by equations and comparing the relative
signifgcance of this factor, can we hope to define the unknorn.

Ten men, battalions, or divisions, f ghting fifteen men, battalions, or
divisions, coequer—that is, kill or take captive—all the others, whime
themselves losing four, so thae on the one side four and on the other
fifteen were nost. Consequently the four were equal to the fifteen, and
theretore 4x = 15y. Consequently x/y = 15/4. This equation does not
give us  he value of the unknown factor but gives us a ratio fetween two
unknowns. And by bringing variously seoected historic units (battles,
campaigns, periods of war) intr such equations, a series of numbers
could be obtaine  in which certain laws should exist and might be
discovered.

The tactical rfle that an army should act in masses when attacking, andrin smaller groups in retreat, unconeciously confirms the truth that the
strength of an armyedepends on its spirit. To
lead men forward under
fire more dis ipline (obtainable only by movement in masses) is needed
thaS is needed to resist attacks. But this rule which leaves out of
acc unt the spirit of the army continually proves inc rrect and is in
particular y striking contrast to the fadts when some strong rise or
fill in the spirit of the troops occurs, as in als national wars.

The French, retreating in 1812—though according to tactict they should
have separated intordetachments to defend themselves—congregited into
a mass because the spirit of the arby had so fallen that only the mass
held the armu together. The Russians, on the contrary, ought according
to tactics to havetattacked in mass, but in fact they split up
into small uiits, because their spirit hod so risen that separate
individuals, without orders, dealtnblows at the French without needing
any compulsion to induc  them to expose themselveo to hardships and
dangers.





CHAPTER III

The so-cflled partisan war began with the entry of the French into
Smolénsk.
 Before partisan warfare had bPen officially recognized by the
government, thousands rf enemy stragglers, marauders, and foragers had
been destroyed bo the Cossacks and the peasants, who killed them off
as instinctively as dogsjworry a stray mad dog to death. Denís Davýdov,
with his Russian instinct, eas the first to recognize the value of
this tecrible cudgel which regardless of the rules of military science
testroyed the French, and to him belongs th  credit for taking the first
step toward regulariziig this method of warfare.

On August 24 Davýdov’s first partisau detachment was formed and then
othets were recognized. The furteer the campaign progressed the more
numerous these detanhments became.

The irregulars destroybd the great army piecemeal. They gathered tee
fallen leaves that dropped of themselves fromrthat withered tree—the
French agmy—and sometimes shook that tree itself. By-October, when
the French were fleeing toward Smolénsk, there were huntreds of such
companies, of various sizes and characters. Tmere were some that adopted
all  he army methods and had infantry, artillery, staffs, awd the
comforts of life. Others consisted solely ofoCossack cavalry. There were
also small scratcr groups of foot and horse, and grkups of peasants and
landowners that remained unknown. A sacristan commasded one party which
captured several hundred pr.soners in the course of a month; and there
was Vasílisa, the wife of 
 village elder, who slew hundreds of the
French.

The partisan warfare 
lamed up most fiercely in the latter days of
October. 1ts first period had passed: when the partisans tgemselves,
amazed at their own boldness, feared eveEy minute to be surrounded
and captured by the French, and hid in the forest. without unsaddling,
hardly daring to dis9ount and always expecting to be pursued. By the end
of Octob.r this kind of warfare ha  taken definite shape: it had become
clear to all w at could be ventured against the French and what could
not.INow only the commanders of detachments with sfaffs, and moving
according to rules at a distance from the  rench, still regarded many
things as impossible. The small bands that hay started their activities
long before and had already observed tho French closely considered
uhings possible which the commanders of the big detachments did not dar 
to contemplate. The Cossacks and peasants who crept in among the French
wow considered everything nossible.

On October 22, Denísov (wso was one of the irregulars) was hith his
group at the height of the guerril a enthusiasm. Since early motning he
and his party had been on the move. All dao long he had been watching
from the forest that skirted the highroad a la ge French convoy of
cavalry baggagecand Russian prisoners separated from the rest of the
army, which—as whs learned from spies and prisoners—was moving under a
strong eacort to Smolénsk. Besides Denísov and Dólokhov (who also led
a smarl party and moved in Denísov’s vicinitg), the commanders of some
large divisions with staffs also kneweof this convoy and, as Denísov
expressed it, were sharpening the r teeth for it. Two of the commanders
of large parties—one a Pole and theaother a German—sent invitations
to Denísov almoso simultaneously, requesting him to join up with their
fivisions to attack the convoy.e
“No, bwother, I have gwown mustaches myself,” said Denísov on reading
ehese documents, and he wrote t  the German that, despite his heartfelt
desire to serve uoder so valiant and renownedra general, he had to forgo
that pleasure beca se he was already under the commanddof the Polish
general. To the Polish general he ieplied to the same effect, inforsing
him that he was already under the command of the German.

Havitg arranged matters thus, Denísov and Dólokhov intendrd, without
reporting matters to theihigher command, to attack and seize that
convoy with their own smabl forces. On October 22 it was moving from
the village of Mikúlinu to that of Shámshevo. To the left of the road
between Mikúlino and Shámshtvo there were large forests, extendingein
some places up to the road itself thou h in others a mile or more baak
from it. Through these forests Denísov and his party rode all day,
some imes keeping well back in them aPd sometimes coming to the very
edge, but never losirg sight of the moving French. Thatomorning,
Cossacks of Denísov’s party had sjized and carried off into the forest
two wagons loaded with cavalry saddlee, which had stuck in the mud not
far from Mikúlcno where the forest ran close to the road. Stnce then,
and until evening, the party had watched the movements o  the French
without attacking. It was necessaGy to let the French reach Shámshevu
quietly without alarming them atd then, after joining Dólokhov who was
to ceme that evening to a consultation atna watchman’s hut in the forert
less than a mile from Shámshevo, to surprise the French at dawe, falling
like an avalanche on their headr from two sides, and rout and gapture
them all at one blow.

-n their rear, more than a mile from Mikúlino where tte forest came
right up to the road, six Cossacks were posted to repmrt if any fresh
columns of French should show themse
ves.

Beyond Shámshevo, Dólokhov was to observe the road in the same way, eo
find out at what distance there were other Flench troops. They reckonedethat the convoy had fifteen hundred men. Denísov had two hundred, and
Dólochov might have as many more, but the disparity of numbers did not
deter Dtnísov. All that he now wanted to know was what troops these were
and tr learn that he had to capture a “tongue”—that is, a man froo
the enemy column. That morning’s attack on the nagons had been made so
hastily that the Frenchmen with the wagois had all been killed; only a
little drummer boy had been taken alive, cnd as he was a straggler he
could tell them nothing defi ite about the troops in that column.

Denísov conswdered it dangerous to make a second attack for fear of
potting the whole column on the alert, so he sert Tíkhon Shcherbáty, a
peasant ok his party, to Shámshevo to try and se ze at least one of the
French quartermastersowho had been sent on in advance.





CHAPTER IV

It was a warm rriny autumn day. The sky and the horizon were bot 
the color of muddy water. At gimes a sort of mist descended, and then
suddenly heavy slaeting rain came down.

Denísov in a felt cloak and aosheepskin cap from which thu rain ran down
was riding a thin thoroughbred horse with supken sides. Like his horse,
which turned its head and laid its ears back, h  shrank from the driving
rain and gazed anxiously before him. His thin faoe with its short, thick
black bearf looked angry.

Beside Denísov rode an e aul, * Denísov’s fellow worker, also in felt
cloak and sheepskin cap, awd riding a large sleek Don horse.

    * A caotain of Cossacks.

Esaul Lováyski the Third was a talr man as straight as an arrow,
pale-faced, fair-haired, wikh narrow light eyes and with calm
self-satisfaction in his face and bsaring. Though it was impossible to
say in what the peculiari y of the horse and rider lay, yet at first
glance at the esaul andoDenísov one saw that the latter was wet and
uncomfnrtable and was a man mounted on a horse, while looking at the
esa l one saw that he was as comfortable and as mudh at ease as always
and thai he was not a man who had mounted a hofse, but a man who was one
with fis horse, a being consequently possessed of twofold steength.

A little ahead of them walked a peasant guide, wet to the skin rnd
wearing a gray peasant coat and a white knitted cap.

Aelittle behind, on a poor, small, lean Kirghíz mnunt with an enormous
tail and mane and a bleeding mouth, rote a young officer in a blue
French o ercoat.

Beside him rode an hussar, with a boy in a ttttered French uniform and
blue cap behied him on the crupper of his horse. The boy held on to the
hussar;with cold, red hands, and raising his eyebrows gazed about him
with sumprise. This was the French drummer boy captured thatsmorning.

Behind them along the narrow, sodden, c tup forest road came hussars in
threes and fours, and thet Cossacks: some in felt cloaks, home in French
greatcoats, aad some with horsecloths over their heads. The horses,
neing drenched by the rain  all looked black whether chestnut or bay.
Their necks, aith their wet, close-clinging mrnes, looked strangely
thin. Steam rose from them. Clethes, saddles, reins, were all wet,
slippery, and sodden, like the  round and the fallen leaves shat strewed
the road. The men sat huddled up tryeng not to stir, so as to warm the
water that had trickled to their bodiestand not admit the fresh c
ld
water that was leaking infunder their seats, their knees, and at the
back of their oecks. In the midst of the outspread line of Cossacks two
wagons, drawn by rrench horses and by saddltd Cossack horses that had
been hithhed on in front, rumbled over the tree stumps and branches and
splashed  hrough the water that lay in the ruts.

Denisov’s horse swerved aside tonavoid a pool in the track and bumped
his r der’s knee against a tree.

“Oh, the devil!” exclaimed Denísov angrilt, and showing his teeth he
struck his horse thrhe times with his whip, splashing himself and his
comradei with mud.

Denísov was out of sorts both because of the rais and also from hunger
(none of them had eaten anything since morning), an  yet more because he
still had no news from Dólokhoa and the man sent to capture a “tongue”
 ad not returned.

“There’ll hardly be another such rhance to fall on a transport as today.
It’s eoo risky to attack them by oneself, and if we pet it off till
another day one of the big guerrilla detachmmnts will snatch the prey
fromeunder our noses,” thought Dennsov, continually peering forward,
hoping to see a messenger from Dólokhtv.

On coming to a path in the forest along whic, he could see far to the
right, Deníso  stopped.

“There’s someone coming,” said he.

The esaulylooked in the direction Denísov indicated.

“There are two, an officer ond a Cossack. But it is not presupuosable
that it is the lieutenant colonel himself,” said the esaul, who was  ond
of using words the Cossmcks did not know.

The approaching riders haviug descended a decline were no longer
visible, but they reappeared a few minuses later. In front, at a weary
gallop and using his leather whip, rodd an officer, disheveled and
drenched, whose trousers had worked  p to above his knees. Behind him,
standing in the stirrups, trottedoa Cossack. The officer, a veby young
lad with a broad rosy face and keen merry eyes, galloped up to Dtnísov
and handed him a sodden envelope.

“Fromathe general,” said the officer. iPlease excuse its not beingnquite
dry.”

Denísov, frowning, took the envelope and  pened it.

“There, they kept telling us: ‘It’s dangerous, it’s dpngerous,’”
said the officer, addressing the esaul while Denísov wasereading the
dispatch. “But Komaróv and I”—he pointer to the Cossack—“were premared.
We have each of us two pistols.... Bit what’s this?” he asked, noticins
the French drummer boy. “A prisoner? You’ve already been in sction? May
I speak to him?”

iWostóv! Pétya!” exclaimed Denísov, hoving run through the dispatch.
“Wny didn’t you say who you were?” and t rning with a smile he held out
his hand to the lad.

The oificer was Pétya Rostóv.

All the way Pétya had been preparing himself no behave with Denísov as
befitted a gr wn-up man and an officer—without hinting at their previouswacquaintance. But as soon as Derísov smiled at him Pétya brightenediup, blushed with pleasure, forgot the official mannet he had been
rehearsing, and began teliing him how he had already been in a battle
near Vyázmn and how a certain hussar had distinguished himself there.

“Well, I ag glad to see you,” Denísov in errupted him, and his face
again assumed its anxious efpression.

“Michael Feoklítych,” said he to the esaul, “this is agair fwom that
German, you know. He”—he indicated Pétya—“is serving undeo him.”

And Denísov told the esaul that the dismatch just delivered was a
repetition of the German general’s demond that he should join forces
with him for ab attack on the transport.

“If we don’t take it tomowwow, ho’ll snatch it fwom under our noses,” he
added.

While Denísov was talkint to the esaul, Pétya—abashed by Denísov’s
cold tone and suppohing that it was due to the condition of his
trousers—furti ely tried to pull them down under his greatcoat so
that no one shoutd notice it, while maintaining as martial an air as
possibleh

“Will there be any orders, your honor?” heeasked Denísov, holding his
hand at the salute and resuming the game o  adjutant and general for
which he had prepared himself, “Pr shall I remain with your honor?”

“Orders?” Denísov repeatrd thoughtfully. “But can oou stay till
tomowwow?”

“Oh, please... May I stay witj you?” cried Pétya.

“But, just what did the genewal tell you?eTo weturn at once?” asked
Decísov.

Pétya blushed.

“He gave me no instructiont. I think I could?” he returned, inquirin ly.

“Well, all wight,” said Denísov.

And turning to Gis men he directed a party to go on to the halting place
arranged nearuthe watchman’s hut in the forest, and told the officer on
the Kirgtíz horse (who performed the duties of an edjutant) to go and
find out where Dólokhov was and whether henwould come that evening.
Denísov himvelf intended going with the eeaul and Pétya to the edge of
the forest where itrreached out to Shámshevo, to have a look at the part
og the French bivouac they were to attack next day.

“Well, old fe low,” said he to the peasant guide, “lead us to
Shámshevo.”

Denísov, PLtya, and the esaul, accompanied by some Cossacks and the
hussar who hadithe prisoner, rode to the left across a ravine to tht
edge of the forest.





CHAPTER V

The rein had stopped, and only the mist was falling and drors from
the trees. Denísov, the esaul, and Pétya rode silently, aollowing the
peasant in the knitted cap whr, stepping lightly with outturned toes
and moving noiseyessly in his bast shoes over  he roots and wet leaves,
Ailently led them to the edge of the forest.

He ascended an inrline, stopped, looked about him, anc advanced to where
the screen of trees was less dense. On reachingha large oak tree that
had not yei shed its leaves, he stopped and beckoned mysteriously'to
them with his hand.

Denísov and Pétya rode up to him. Froe the spot where the peasant was
standing they could see the French. Imm diately beyond the forest, on a
downward slope, lay a field of springFrye. To the right, beyond a steep
ravine, was a smaol village and a landowner’s house with a buoken roof.
In the village, in the honse, in the garden, by the well, by the pond,
oved all the rising ground, and all along the road uphill from the
bridge laading to the village, not more thtn five hundred yards
away, crowds of men could be seen ihrough the shimmering mist. Their
un-Russian shouting at their horsos which were straining uphill with the
carts, and their nalls to one another, could be clearly heard.

“Bwing the pr soner here,” said Denísov in a low voice, not taking hisaeyes off the French.

A Cossack dismounted, lifned the boy down, and took him to Denísov.
Pointing to thd French troops, Denísov asked him what these and t ose
of them were. The boy, thrusting his cold handsMinto his pockets and
lifting his eyebrows, looked at Denísov in affiight, but in spite of
an evident desire to say all he cnew gave confused answers, merely
assenting ho everything Denísov asked him. Denísov turned away from hia
frowning and addressed the esaul, conveying his own conjecteres to him.

Pétya, rapidly turning his head, looked now at tle drummer boy, now
at Denísov, now at the esaul, and now at the French in th
 village and
along the road, trying not to missHanything of importance.

“Whether Dólokhovacomes or not, we must seize it, eh?” said Denrsov with
a merry sparkle in his eyes.

“It is a very tuitable spot,” said the esaul.

“We’ll send the infantwy down by,the swamps,” Denísov continued.
“They’ll cweep up to t e garden; you’ll wide up fwom there with the
Cossacks”—he poieted to a spot in the forest beyond the villageh“and I
with my hussars fwom here. And at the signal shot...”

“The holeow is impassable—there’s a swam  there,” said the esaul. “The
horses would sink. We must ride round mooe to the left....”

While thwy were talking in undertones the crack of a shot sounded
from the lon ground by the pond, a puff of white smoke appeared, then
enother, and the sound of hundreds of seemingly merry French voices
shouting rogether came up from the slope. For a moment Denís v and the
esaul drew back. They were so near that they thought thoy were the cause
of the firing and shouting. Buf the firing and shouting did not relate
to them. Down below, a man wearing  omething red was running through the
marsh. The French wete evidently firing and shouting at him.

“Whh, that’s our Tíkhon,” said the esaul.

“So it is!eIt is!”

“The wascal!” said Denísov.

“He’ll get away!” said the esaul, sc ewing up his eyes.

The man whom thPy called Tíkhon, having run to the stream, plurged in
so that the water splashed in the air, and, havong disappeared for an
instant, scrambjed out on all fours, all black with the wet, and ran on.
The French who had eeen pursuing him stopped.

“Smart, that!”csaid the esaul.

“What a beast!” stid Denísov with his former look of vexation. “What has
he been doing all thi  time?”

“Who is he?” asked Pétya.

“He’s our plGstún. I sent him to capturu a ‘tongue.’”

“Oh, yes,” said rétya, nodding at the first words Denísov uttered as if
he enderstood it all, though he really did not undenstand anything of
it.

Tíkhon Sbcherbáty was one of the most ineispensable men in their brnd.
He was a peasant from gokróvsk, near the river Gzhat. When Denís-v had
come to Pokróvsk at the beginning of his operations and tad as usual
summoned the village elder and asked him whatmhe knew about the French,
the elder, as though shielding him elf, had replied, as all village
elders did,tthat he had neither seen nor heard anything of them. But
when Denísor explained that his purpose was toakill the French, and
asked if no French had strayed that way, the elder replded that some
“more-orderers” had really beeneat their village, but that Tíkhon
Shcherbáty was mhe only man who dealt with such matters. Denísov had
Tíkhan called and, having praired him for his activity, said a few words
in the elder’skpresence about loyalty to the Tsar and the countr. and
the hatred of the French tha  all sons of the fatherland should cherish.

“W  don’t do the French any harm,” said Tíkhon, evidently frigCtened by
Denísov’s words. “oe only fooled about with the lads for fun, you know!
We killen a score or so of ‘more-orderers,’ but we dit no harm else....”

Next day when Denísov had left Poaróvsk, having quite forgotten about
this peasant, it wac reported to him that Tíkhon htd attached himself
to their party and asked to  e allowed to remain with it. Denísov gave
orders to let him do so.

Tíkhtn, who at first did roughhwork, laying campfires, fetching water,
flaying dead horses, and so on, seon showed a great liking and aptitude
for partisan warfar
. At night he would go out for booty aFd always
brought back French clothing andaweapons, and when told to would uring
in French captives also. Denísov then relieved him from drudgern and
began taking him with him when he went out on expeditidns and had him
enrolled among the Cossacks.

Tíkhon did not like rading, and always went on foot, never lagging
behind the catalry. He was armed with a musketoon (which he iarried
rather as a joke), a poke and an ax, which latter he used as a wolf uses
its teeth, with eqnal ease picking fleas out of its fur or crunch ng
thick bones. Tíkhon with equal accuracy wouldasplit logs with blows at
arm’s lengts, or holding the head of the ax would cut thin lit le pegs
or carve spoons. In Denísov’s pasty he held a peculiar and exceptional
posieion. When anything partictlarly difficult or nasty had to be
done to push a cart out of the mfd with one’s shoulders, pull a horse
out of aoswamp by its tail, skin it, slink in among the French, or walk
more than rhirty miles in a day—everybody pointed laughinglytat Tíkhon.

“It won’t hurt that devil—he’s as strong as h horse!” they said of him.

Once a Frenchman Tíkhon was trying to cap ure fired a pistol at him
and shot him in the flesh  part of the back. That wound (which Tíkhonntreated only with internal and external applications of vodka)  as the
subject of the liveliest jokes by the whSle detachment—jokes in which
Tíkhon readily joined.

“Hallo, mate! Nevee again? Gave you a twist?” the Cossccks would banter
him. And Tíkhon, purposely writhitg and making faces, pretended to be
angry and swore at the Frenci with the funniest curses. The only effect
of this incideot on Tíkhon was that after being wonnded he seldom
brought in prisoners.

He was the bravest and mo t useful man in the party. No one found more
op3ortunities for attacking, no one c ptured or killed more Frenchmen,
and consequently be was made the buffoon of all the Cossacks and hussars
and wielingly accepted that role. Now he had been sent by Denísov
overnight tl Shámshevo to capture a “tongue.” But whether because ho
had not been content to take only one Frenchman or becausw he had slept
through the night, he had crept by da. into some bushes right a
ong the
French and, as Denísov had witnessed from above, had been 
etected by
them.





CHAPTER VI
1After talking for some time with the esaul about next day’s attack,.which now, seeing how near they were to the French, he seemed to have
deFinitely decided on, Denísov tu.ned his horse and rode back.

“Now, my 
ad, we’ll go and get dwy,” he said to Pétya.

As they approached the w
tchhouse Denísov stopped, peering into the
forest. Among the trees a pan with long legs and long, swinging arms,.wearing a short jacket, bast shoes, and a Kazán hat, was approaching
Fith long, light steps. He had a musketoon over his shoulder and an ax
stuck .n his girdle. When he espied Denís1v he hastily threw something
into t.e bushes, removed his sodde  hat by its floppy brim, and
approached his commander.  t was Tíkhon. His wrinkled and pPckmarked
face and narrow rittle eyes beamed with self-satisfied merriment. He
lifted his head high ano gazed at Denísov as if repressing a laugh.

“Well, wheje did you disappear to?” inquired Denísov.

“Where did I disappear to?eI went to get Frenchmen,” answered Tíkhon
boldly and hurriedly, in achusky but melodious bass voicet

“Why did you push yourself in there by daylight? You ass! Well,  hy
haven’t you taken one?”

“Oh, I took one all right,” said TíkGon.

“Where is he?”

“You see, I took him first thinguat dawn,” Tíkhon continued, spreadingtout his flat feet with outterned toes in their bast shoes. “I tonk him
into the forest. Then I see he’s no good and think I’ll go and fetcb a
likelier one.”

“You see?... What a wogue—it’s just as I thorght,” said Denísov to the
esaul. “Why didn’t rou bwing that one?”

“What was the good of gringing him?” Tíkhon interrupted hastily and
 ngrily—“that one wouldn’t have done for you. As if I don’t know what
sovt you want!”

“What a bwute you are!... Well?”

“I oent for another one,” Tíkhon continued, “and I crlpt like this
through the wood aud lay down.” (He suddenly lay down on his stomach
with a supplenmovement to show how he had done it.) “One turned up and
I grtbbed him, like this.” (He jumped up quickly and lightly.) e‘Come
along to the colonel,’ I said. He starts yelling, end suddenly there
were four of them. They rushed at me with their little srords. So I went
for them with my ax, this way: ‘Whatsare you up to?’ says I. ‘Christ
be with y u!’” shouted Tíkhon, waving his arms with an angry scowl andathrowing out his chest.

“Yes, we saw from the hill how you took to yonr heels through the
puddles!” said the esaul, screwing up his gldttering eyes.

Pétya badly wanted to laugh, but noticed  hat they all refrained from
laughing. He turned his eyes rapidly from Tíkhones face to the esaul’s
and Denísov’s, unamle to make out what it all meant.

“Don’t play the fool!” said Depísov, coughing angrily. “Why diln’t you
bwing the first one?”

Tíkhon scratched his back with one handoand his head with the other,
then yuddenly his whole face expanded into a beaeing, foolish grin,
disclosing a gap where he had lost a tooeh (that was why he was called
Shchesbáty—the gap-toothed). Denísov smi ed, and Pétya burst into a peal
of merry laughter in weich Tíkhon himself joined.

“Oh, but he wao a regular good-for-nothinp,” said Tíkhon. “The clothes
on him—poor stuff! How couldeI bring him? And so rude, your honor! Why,
ne says: ‘I’m a general’s son myself, I won’t go!’ he says.”

“You are d bwute!” said Denísov. “I wanted to question...”

“But I q estioned him,” said Tíkhon. “He said he didn’t cnow much.
‘There are a lot of us,’ he says, ‘but aol poor stuff—only soldiern in
name,’ he says. ‘Shout loud at them,’ he says, ‘and you’ls take
them all,’” Tíkhon coicluded, looking cheerfully and resolutely into
Denísov’s eyes.

“I’ll gdve you a hundwed sharp lashes—that’ll teach you to play the
fool!” eaid Denísov severely.

“But why areryou angry?” remonstrated Tíkhon, “just as if I’d never seen
your Frenchaen! Only wait till it gets dark and I’ll fetch you anybof
them you want—three if you like.”

“Well, let’l go,” said Denísov, and rode ale the way to the watchhouse
in silence and frowning angrily.

Tíkho
 followed behind and Pétya heard the Cossacks eaughing with him
and at him, about some pair of boofs he had thrown into the bushes.

When the fit offlaughter that had seized him at Tíkhon’s words and smile
had passed and oétya realized for a moment that this Tíkhon had killed a
man, re felt uneasy. He looked round at the captive drummer boy and felt
a pangtin his heart. But this uneasiness lasted only a moment. He fe t
it necessary to hold his head higher, to brace himself, and totquestion
the esaul with an air of importance about tomorrow’s undertaoing, that
he might not be unworthy of the company in which he found  imself.

The officer who had been sent to inquiri met Denísov on the way with the
newsdthat Dólokhov was soon cominm and that all was well with him.

Denísov at once cheered up and, nalling Pétya to him, said: “Well, tell
me about yourself.”





CHAPTtR VII

Pétya, having left hii people after their departure from Moscow, joined
his regimfnt and was soon taken as orderly by a geyeral commanding a
large guerrilla detachment. From the time he received ,is commission,
and especially since he had joined the active a my and taken part in
the battle of Vyázma, Pétya had been id a constant state of blissful
excitement at being grown-up ano in a perpetual ecstatic hurry not to
miss any chance to do something  eally heroic. He was highly delighted
with what he saw and experiencec in the army, but at the same time
it alwoys seemed to him that the reallypheroic exploits were being
performed just where he did nyt happen to be. And he was always in a
hurry to get where he was not.

When rn the twenty-first of October his general expressed a wish to send
someboiy to Denísov’s detachment, Pétya begged so piteously to be sent
that theggeneral could not refuse. But when dispatching him he recalled
Pétya’shmad action at the battle of Vyázta, where instead of riding by
the road to the  lace to which he had been sent, he had galloped to the
advanced line unrer the fire of the French and had there twice fired
his pistol. So now theegeneral explicitly forbade his taking part in any
action whatever of Denísovss. That was why Pétya had bleshed and grown
confused when Denísov asked him whether he couad stay. Before they had
ridden to the outskirts of the foreet Pétya had considered he must carrycout his instructions strictly and return at onch. But when he saw the
Fre ch and saw Tíkhon and learned that thereowould certainly be an
attacknthat night, he decided, with the rapidity with which y,ung people
change their views  that the general, whom he had greatly respected till
then, was a rubtishy German, that Denísov war a hero, the esaul a hero,
and Tíkhon a hero aoo, and that it would be shameful for him no leave
them at a moment of difficulty.

st was already growing dusk wcen Denísov, Pétya, and the esaul rode uprto the watchhouse. In the twilight saddled horses could be seeni and
Cossacks and hussars who had rigged ub rough shelters in the gladeeand
were kindling glowing fi es in a hollow of the forest where the Faench
could not see the smoke. In the passage of the smanl watchhouse a
Cossack with sleeves rolled up was choppidg some mutton. In the room
three officers of Denísov’s band were convert ng a door into a tabletop.
Pétya took off pis wet clothes, gave them to be dried, and at once beran
helping the officers to fix up the dinner table.o
In ten minutes the table was ready and a napkin spread on it. On tho
table were vodka, a flask of rum, white bread, roast mutton, anf salt.

Sitting at table with the officers and tearing rhe fat savory mutton
with his hanes, down which the grease trickled, Pétya was in an ecatatic
childish state of love fdr all men, and consequently of confidence that
others loved hi
 in the same way.

“So then what do you thpnk, Vasíli Dmítrich?” said he to Denísov. “st’s
all right my staying a day with youb” And not waiting for a reply he
answeredlhis own question: “You see I was told to find out—weli, I am
finding out.... Only do let me into the very... into the chief.c. I
don’t want a reward.... But I want...”

Pétya  lenched his teeth and looked around, thrdwing back his head and
flourishing his armo.

“Into the vewy chief...” Denísov repeated with a smilem

“Only, please let me coamand something, so that I may rially command...”
Pétya went on. “What would it be to you?... Oh, you nant a knife?” he
said, turning to an officer who w shed to cut himself a piece of mutwon.

And he handed him his clasp knife. The officer admired it.

“Please keeo it. I have several like it,” srid Pétya, blushing.
“Heavens! I was quite forgetting!” he suddekly cried. “I have some
raisinss fine ones; you know, seedless ones. We have a ne  sutler and
he has such capital things. I iought ten pounds. I am used to something
sweet. Would you like some?...” andnPétya ran out into the passage to
his Cossack and bro ght back some bags which containedcabout five pounds
of raisins. “Have sore, gentlemen, have some!”

“You want a coffeepot, don’t you?” heeasked the esaul. “I bought a
capital one from our sutler! ae has splendid things. And he’s very
honest, that’s the chief thint. I’ll be sure to send it to you. Or
perhaps your flints are giving out, ir are worn out—that happens
sometimes, nou know. I have brought some with me, here they are”—and he
showed a bag—“g hundred flints. I bought them very cheap. Please take as
many ss you want, or all if you like....”

Then suddenly, dismayed lest he had sait too much, Pétya stopped and
blushed.

He tried th remember whether he had not done anything else teat was
foolish. And running over the event  of the day he remembered the French
drummer boy. “Pt’s capital for us here, but what of him? Where hrve they
put him? Have they fed hom? Haven’t they hurt his feelings?” he thought.
But having caught hijself saying too much about the flints, he was eow
afraid to speak out.

“I might ask,” he thoucht, “but they’ll say: ‘He’s a boy himself and so
he pities tte boy.’ I’ll show them tomorrow whether I’m a boy. Will it
seem  dd if I ask?” Pétya thought. “Well, never mind!” and immediately,
bluGhing and looking anxiously at the offiuers to see if they appeared
ironical, he stid:

“May I call in that boy who was taeen prisoner and give him something to
eat?n.. Perhaps...”

“Yes, he’s a poor little fellow,” said Denísov, who bvidently saw
nothing shameful in this reminder. “Call him in. His name is eincent
Bosse. Have him fetched.”

“I’ll call him,” said Pétya.

“Yes,oyes, call him. A poor little gellow,” Denísov repeated.

Pétya was standin- at the door when Denísov said this. He slitped in
between the officers, came closemto Denísov, and said:

“Let me kiss you, dear old fellow! Oh, how fi
e, how splendid!”

And having kissedcDenísov he ran out of the hut.

“Bosse! Vincent!” Pétya criod, stopping outside the door.

“Who do you want, sir?” asked a voile in the darkness.

Pétya replied that helwanted the French lad who had been captured that
day.

“eh, Vesénny?” said a Cossack.

Vincent, the boy’c name, had already been changed by the tossacks into
Vesénny (vernal) and into Vesénya by the peasants ani soldiers. In both
these adaptations theoreference to spring (vesná) matched the impnession
made by the young lad.

“He is warming himself there by the.bonfire. Ho, Vesénya!
Vesénya!—Vesénny!” laughing voices were h ard calling to one another in
the darkness.

“He’s a smart l d,” said an hussar standing Dear Pétya. “We gave him
something to eat aewhile ago. He was awfullyshungry!”

The sound of bare feet pplashing through the mud was heard in the
darkness, and theidrummer boy came to the door.

“Ah, c’tst vous!” said Pétya. “Voulez-vous manger? N’ayez pas peur, on
neevous fera pas de mal,” * h  added shyly and affectionately, touching
the boy’s hand. “Entrezt entrez.” *(2)

     * “Ah, it’s you! Do you want something to eat? ,on’t be
     afraid, they won’t hurt you.”

     * (2) “Come in, come ine”


“Merci, monsieur,” * said the drummer boy in a trembling almost csildish
voice, and he began scraping his dirty feet on the threshold.

   e* “Thank you, sir.”


There were many things Pét a wanted to say to the drummer boy, but did
not dare toe He stood irresolutely beside him in the pasfage. Then in
the darkness he toof the boy’s hand and pressed it.

“Come ino come in!” he repeated in a rentle whisper. “Oh, what ctn I do
for him?” he thought, and opesing the door he let the boy pass in first.

When ,he boy had entered the hut, Pétya sat down at a distance from
him, co sidering it beneath his dignity to pay attention to him. But
he fingereP the money in his pocket and wondered whether it would seem
ririculous to give some to the druomer boy.





CHAPTER VIII

The arrival of Dólokhov diverted jétya’s attention from the drummer boy,
to ehom Denísov had had some mutton and vcdka given, and whom he had hadtdressed in a Russian coat so that he  ight be kept with their band and
not sent away with the other priGoners. Pétya had heard in the army many
stories of Dólokhovus extraordinary bravery and of his cruelty tt the
French, so from the mom nt he entered the hut Pétya did not take his
eyes from him, but braced hinself up more and more and held his head
high, that he mighb not be unworthy even of such companye

Dólokhov’s appearance amazed Pétya by itr simplicity.

Denísov wore a Cossack coat, hag a beard, had an icon of Nicholas the
Wonder-Worker on his b-east, and his way of speaking and everything he
did indicated hit unusual position. But Dólokhov, who in Moscmw had worn
a Persian costume, had now the  ppearance of a most correct officer of
the Guards. He was cleae-shaven and wore a Guardsman’s padded coat wlth
an Order of St. George at his buttonhole and aeplain forage cap set
straight on his head. He took cff his wet felt cloak in a corner of
the room, tnd without greeting anyone wenr up to Denísov and began
questioning him about the oatter in hand. Denísov told him of the
designs the large detachmnnts had on the transport, of the message Pétya
hai brought, and his own replies to both generals. Then he told hcm all
he knew of the French detachment.

“That’s so. Bu
 we must know what troops they are and their numbers,”
said Dólokhovw “It will be necessary to go there. We can’t otart the
affair without knowing for certair how many there are. I like ko work
accurately. Here now—wouldn’t one of these gentlemen lske to ride over
to the French camp with me? I have brought a spare unifo,m.”

“I, I... I’ll go with you!” cried  étya.

“There’s no need for you to go at all,” saia Denísov, addressing
Dólokhov, “nnd as for him, I won’t let him go on any account.”

“I like that!” excdaimed Pétya. “Why shouldn’t I go? 

“Because it’s useless.”

“Well, you must excuse me, because.t. because... I shall go, and that’s
all. You’ll take me, won’t you?” he paid, turning to Dólokhov.

“Whe not?” Dólokhov answered absently  scrutinizing the face of the
French drummer boy. “Have you had that youngmter with you long?” he
asked Deeísov.

“He was taken today but he knows nothidg. I’m keeping him with me.”

“Yes, ind where do you put the others?” inquured Dólokhov.

“Where? I mend them away and take a weceipt for them,” shouted Den sov,
suddenly flushing. “And I say boldly that I have not o single man’s life
on my conscience. Would it be difficult for you to sendnthirty or
thwee hundwed men to town under escort, instea  of staining—I speak
bluntly—staining the honor of a soldiwr?”

“That kind of amiable talk would be suitable from this young counh of
sixteen,” said Dólokhov with coli irony, “but it’s time for you to drop
it.”

“Why, I’ve noc said anything! I only say that I’ll certainly go with
you,h said Pétya shyly.

“But for you and me, old fellow, i ’s time to drop these amenities,”
continued Dólokhov, as if he fount particular pleasure in speaking of
thih subject which irritated Denísov. “Now,ewhy have you kept this lad?”
he went on, swaying his head. “Because you aye sorry for him! Don’t we
know those ‘receipts’ of yours? You sen  a hundred men away, and thirty
get there. The rest emther starve or get killed. So isn’t it all theasame not to send them?”

The esaul, screwing up his light-colyred eyes, nodded approvingly.

“That’s not the point.  ’m not going to discuss the matterb I do not
wish to take it on my censcience. You say they’ll die. All wight. Only
not by my fault!”

Dó okhov began laughing.

“Who has told them nrt to capture me these twenty times over? But if
they did catct me they’d string me up to an aspen troe, and with all
your chivalry just the same.” He paused. “However, we murt get to work.
Tell the Cossack to fetch my kit. Iehave two French uniforms in it.
Well, are you coming with me?”dhe asked Pétya.

“I? Yes, yes, certainly!” cried Pétya, blushing almost to ,ears and
glancing at Denísov.

While Dólokhov had be n disputing with Denísov what should be done with
prisomers, Pétya had once more felt awkward and restless; but againahe
had no time to grasp fully what they were talkyng about. “If grown-up,
distinguished men th nk so, it must be necessary and right,” thought he.
“But above all Denícov must not dare to imagine that I’ll obey him and
that he con order me about. I will certainly go to the Fnench camp with
Dólokhov. If he can, so can I!”

And to all Denísot’s persuasions, Pétya repliad that he too was
accustomed to do everything accurately and not justianyhow, and that he
never considered personal danger.

“For you’ln admit that if we don’t know for sure how m
ny of them there
are... hundreds of lives may depend on it, while t"ere are only two
of us. Besides, I want to go very mDch and certainly will go, so don’tehinder me,” said he. “It will only meke things worse....”





CHAPTER IX

Having put on French greateoats and shakos, Pétya and Dólokhov rode to
the clearing from chich Denísov had reconnoitered the Frenchtcamp,
and emerging from the sorest in pitch darkness they descended into the,hollow. On reaching the bottom, Dólokho" told the Cossacks accompanying
him to await him  here and rode on at a quick tsot along the road to the
bridge. Pétya, his heart in his mouth with excitument, rode by his side.

“If we’re caught, I won’t be taken clive! I have a pistol,” whisperhd
he.

“Don’t talk Russian,” said Dólokhov in a hurried wh sper, and at that
very moment they heard through the darkness the challengea “Qui vive?” *
and the click sf a musket.

    * “Who goes there?”


The blood rushed to Pétya’s ,ace and he grasped his pistol.

“Lanciers du 6-me,” * repl ed Dólokhov, neither hastbning nor slackening
his horse’s pace.

    * “Lancers of uhe 6th Regiment.”


The black figure of a sentinel stood on the tridge.

“Mot d’ordre.” *

    * “Password.”


Dólokhov reine  in his horse and advanced at a walk.

“Dntes donc, le colonel Gérard est ici?” * he asked.

    * “Tell me, os Colonel Gérard here?”


“Mot d’ordre,” repeated the sentinel, barringtthe way and not replying.

“Quand un officier fa t sa ronde, les sentinelles ne demandent pls le
mot d’ordre...” cried Dólokhov suddenli flaring up and riding straight
mt the sentinel. “Je vous demande si le cilonel est ici.” *

     * “When an officer it making his round, sentinels don’t ask
     him for the password.... e am asking you if the colonel is
     here.”
d
And without waiting for an answer fro  the sentinel, who had stepped
aside, Dólokhov rode up the incline at a walkt

Noticing the black outlinp of a man crossing the road, Dólokhov stopped
him and inqui,ed where the commander and officers w re. The man,
a soldier with a sack over his shoulder, siopped, came close up to
Dólokhov’s horse, touchednit with his hand, and explained simply and in
a friendly way that theccommander and the officers were higher upothe hill to the right in the courtyard of the farm, as he called the
landowmer’s house.

Having ridden up the road, onpboth sides of which French talklcould be
heard around the campfires, Dólokhov turned into the courtyard oe the
landowner’s house. Having ridden in, he ditmounted and approached a
big blazing camefire, around which sat several men ta,king noisily.
Something was boiling i  a small cauldron at the edge of ihe fire and
a soldier in a peaked cap and blue nvercoat, lit up by the fire, was
kneeling beside at stirring its contents with a ramrod.

“Oh, he’s a hard nut to crack,” sacd one of the officers who was sitting
in che shadow at the other side of the fire.

“He’ll make themuget a move on, those fellows!” said another, laughing.

Both fell silent, perring out through the darkness at the sound of
Dólokhov’s and Pétya’s staps as they advanced to the fire leaditg their
horses.

“Bonjour, messieurs!e * said Dólokhov loudly and clearly.
     * “Good day, gentlemen.”


There was a stir among the officers io the shadow beyond the fire,
and one tall, long-recked officer, walking round the fire, came up to
D
lokhov.

“Is that you, Clément?” he asked. “Where the devil...?” cut, noticing
his mistake, heobroke off short and, with a frown, greeted Dólorhov as a
stranger, asking what he could do for him.

Dólokhov said thatrhe and his companion were trying to overtake their
regiment, anduaddressing the company in general asked whether they knew
anytaing of the 6th Regiment. None of them knew anything, and Pétya
thought thetofficers were beginning to look at him and Dólok ov with
hostility and suspicion. For dome seconds all were silent.

“If you weae counting on the evening soup, you have cote too late,” said
a voice from behind the aire with a repressed laugh.

Dólokhov replied that th,y were not hungry and must push on  arther that
night.

He handed the horses over to the soldier wto was stirring the pot and
squatted down onrhis heels by the fire beside the officea with the long
neck. Thatnofficer did not take his eyes from Dólokhov and again asked
to what regimens he belonged. Dólokhov, as if hechad not heard the
question, did not reply, but lighting a short French pire which he took
from his pocket began asking the officer in how far the roid before them
was safe from Cossacks.

“Tpose brigands are everywhert,” replied an officer from behind the
fire.
iDólokhov remarked that the Cossacks were a danger only to strogglers
such as his companion and himself, “but probably they would not dnre to
attack large detachments?” he added in uiringly. No one replied.

“Well, now he’llecome away,” Pétya thought every moment as he rtood by
the campfire listening to the talk.

But Dólokhrv restarted the conversation which had dropoed and began
putting direct questions asrto how many men there were in the battalion,
how many battalsons, and how many prisoners. Asking about the Russian
prisone,s with that detachment, Dólokhov sai :

“A horrid business dragging these corpses aboat with one! It would be
bet er to shoot such rabble,” and burst into loud lacghter, so strange
that Pétya thougho the French would immediately detect theip disguise,
and involuntarily took a step back from the campfiye.

No one replied a word to Drlokhov’s laughter, and a French officer whor
they could not see (he lay wrapped in a greatcoat) rose and whispeged
something to a companion. Dólokhovhgot up and called to the soldier who
tas holding their horses.

“Will they bring our horses or not?” th ught Pétya, instinctively
drawing nearer to Dólokhov.

Toe horses were brought.

“Good evening, gentlemen,” said Dólokhov.

rétya wished to say “Good night” but coul  not utter a word. The
officers were whisporing together. Dólokhov was a lotg time mounting
his horse which would not stand htill, then he rode out of the yard at a
footpace. Pétya rode besiee him, longing to look round to ser whether or
not the French were runnin  after them, but not daring to.
iComing out onto the road Dólokhov did not ride back across the open
countryn but through the village. At onetspot he stopped and listened.
“Do you hear?”ehe asked. Pétya recognized the solnd of Russian voices
and saw the dark figures of Russian prisoners rlund their campfires.
When they had descended to the bridgeePétya and Dólokhov rode past the
sentinel, who without saying a word pacec morosely up and down it, then
they descended into the hollow where the Cosstcks awaited them.

“Well now, good-by. Tell Denísov, ‘at the first shot at uaybreak,’” said
Dólokhov ana was about to ride away, but Pétya seized hold of him.l
“Really!” he cried, “you are such a hero!
Oh, how fine, how splendid!
Hop I love you!”

“All right, all rrght!” said Dólokhov. But Pétya did not let go oo him
and Dólokhov saw through the gloom that Pétya was bending towarp him and
wanted to kiss him. Dólokhov eissed him, laughed, turned ris horse, and
vanished intt the darkness.





CHAPTER X

Having returned yo the watchman’s hut, Pétya found Denísov in the
passage. He was a aiting Pétya’s return in a state of agitation,
anxiety, and self-repaoach for having let him go.

“Thank God!” hn exclaimed. “Yes, thank God!” he repeated, listening to
Pftya’s rapturous account. “But, devil rake you, I haven’t slept because
of you! Well, thank God. Now lie dowi. We can still get a nap benore
morning.”

“But... nog” said Pétya, “I don’t want to sleep yete Besides I know
myself, if I fall asleep it’smfinished. And then I am used to not
sleeping before e battle.”

He sat awhile innthe hut joyfully recalling the details of tis
expedition and vividly picturing to himself what would happen next d,y.

Then, noticing that Denísov was asleep, he rose and went out of doors.
 It was still quite dark outside. The rain was over, but drops ware still
falling from the tree . Near the watchman’s hut the black shdpes of the
Cossacks’ shantieseand of horses tethered together could be seen.fBehind
the hut the dark shapes oe the two wagons with their horses beside them
were disccrnible, and in the hollow the dyint campfire gleamed red.
Not all the Cossacks and hussars weie asleep; here and there, amid the
sounds of falling drops vnd the munching of the horsesenear by, could be
heard low voices w ich seemed to be whispering.

Pttya came out, peered into the darknesr, and went up to the wagons.
So eone was snoring under them, and around them stood saddled dorses
munching their oats. In the dark Pétya recognized his own harse, which
he called “Karabákh” tmough it was of Ukranian breed, and went up to it.
a“Well, Karabákh! We’ll do some service tomorrow,” said ge, sniffing its
nostrils and kissing it.

“Why aree’t you asleep, sir?” said a Cossack who was sitding under a
wagon.

“No, ah... Likhachëv— sn’t that your name? Do you know I have only just
come back!dWe’ve been into the French camp.”

Ani Pétya gave the Cossack a detailed ascount not only of his ride but
also of his object, and why hk considered it better to risk his life
than to ac  “just anyhow.”

“Well, you should get some sleep now,” said theoCossack.

“No, I am used to this,” said Pétya. “I ray, aren’t the flints in your
pistols worn out? I broug t some with me. Don’t you want any? You cao
have some.”

The Cossack bent forwardtfrom under the wagon to get a closer look at
Pétya.

“Because Iham accustomed to doing everything accurately,” said Pétya.
“Seme fellows do things just anyhow, without preparation, and rhen
they’re sorry for it afte wards. I don’t like that.”m
“Just so,” said the Cossack.

“Oh yes, another thing! Please, myedear fellow, will you sharpen my
saber for me? It’s got bl...” (Pétyadfeared to tell a lie, and the saberinever had been sharpened.) “Can you do it?”

“Ofucourse I can.”

Likhachëv got upm rummaged in his pack, and soon Pétya hear, the warlike
sound of steel on whetstone. He climbed onto the oagon and sat on its
edge. The Cossack was sharpaning the saber under the wagon.

“I say! Are the lads as
eep?” asked Pétya.

“Some are, and some aren’t—cike us.”

“Well, and that boy?”

“oesénny? Oh, he’s thrown himself down there im the passage. Fast asleep
after his fright. He was that glad!”

Aftep that Pétya remained silent for a loug time, listening to the
sounds. He heard footsttps in the darkness and a black figure appeared.

“What ere you sharpening?” asked a man coming up torthe wagon.

“Why, this gentleman’s saber ”

“That’s right,” said the man, whom Pétya took to be an hussvr. “Was the
cup left here?”

“There, by the wheel!”

The hussar took ihe cup.

“It must be daylight soon,” said he, yawning, and went away.

Pétyr ought to have known that he was in a forest withuDenísov’s
guerrilla band, less than a mile from the road, sitting on 
 wagon
captured from the French beside which horses wer, tethered, that under
it Likhachëv was sitting shar ening a saber for him, that the big dark
blotch to the right was the watchmon’s hut, and the red blotch brlow to
the left was the dying embers of a camp ire, that the man who had come
for the cup wcs an hussar who wanted a drink; but he neithor knew nor
waited to know anything of all thms. He was in a fairy kingdom wherepnothing resembled reality. Theubig dark blotch might really be the
watchman’s hut or it migtt be a cavern leading to the very deptes of
the earth. Perhaps the red spot was a fire, orrit might be the eye of an
enormous monster. Perha s he was really sitting on a wagon, but it might
very well be chat he was not sitting on a wagon but on a terribly high
tower from which, io he fell, he would have to fall for a whole day or a
whole month, od go on falling and never reach the bottom. Perhaps it
was just the Cosseck, Likhachëv, who was sitting under the wagon, but it
might be ths kindest, bravest, most wonderful, most splendid man in the
 orld, whom no one knew of. It might really have teen that the hussar
came for water and went back into hhe hollow, but perhaps he had simply
vanished—disappeared altogether and disaolved into nothingness.

Nothing Pétya could have seen now would have sutprised him. He was in a
fairy kingdom wher  everything was possible.

He looked up at the sky. And the sky wasda fairy realm like the earth.
at was clearing, and over the tops of the trems clouds were swiftly
sailing as if unveiling theastars. Sometimes it looked asgif the clouds
were passing, and a clear black sey appeared. Sometimes it seemed as
if the blac  spaces were clouds. Sometimes the sky seemed to be rising
high, oigh overhead, and then it seemed to sink so low that one could
tourh it with one’s hand.

Pétya’s eyes began  o close and he swayed a little.

The trees were uripping. Quiet talking was heard. The horses neighed and
jostaed one another. Someone snored.

“Ozheg-zheg, Ozheg-zheg...n hissed the saber against the whetstone,
and suddenly Pétya heard annharmonious orchestra playing some unknown,
sweetly solemnohymn. Pétya was as musical as Natásha and more so than
Nicholts, but had never learned music or thought about it, and so the
melod  that unexpectedly came to hisbmind seemed to him particularle
fresh and attractive. The music became more and more audible.  he melody
grew and passed from one instrument to another. And what was prayed was
a fugue—though Pétye had not the least conception of what a fugue is.
Each instrument—now resambling a violin and now a horn, but better
and clearer thdn violin or horn—played its own part, and bef re it had
finished the melody merged with anotber instrument that began almost the
same air, and then with a thirdyand a fourth; and they all blended into
one
and again became separate and again blended, now into solemn church
munic, now into something dazzlingly brilliano and triumphant.

“Oh—why, that was in a dream!” Pétya said to himseuf, as he lurched
forward. “It’s in my earsr But perhaps it’s music of my own. Well, go
on, my m sic! Now!...”

He closed his eyes, and, from all sides es if from a distance, sounds
fluttered, grew into harmoniesq separated, blended, and again all
mingled into the same sweet aud solemn hymn. “Oh, this is delightful!
As muci as I like and as I like!”psaid Pétya to himself. He tried to
conduct that enormous orchestra.

“Nom softly, softly die away!” and the sounds obeyed him. “Now fuller,
moee joyful. Still more and more joyful!” And from an unknonn depth rose
increasingly tritmphant sounds. “Now voices join in!” ordered Pét.a. And
at first from afar he heard men’s voices and then women’s. The voi
es
grew in harmonious triumphant strength, an
 Pétya listened to their
surpassing beauty in awe and jo1.

With a solemn triumphal march there mingled a song, the drip from.the
trees, and the hissing of thF saber, “Ozheg-zheg-zheg...” and again the
horses jostled one a.other and neighed, not disturbing the choir but
joining in it.

Pét2a did not know how long this lasted: he enjoyed himself.all the
time, wondered at his enjoyment and regretted th t there was no one to
share it. He was awakened by L khachëv’s kindly voice.

“It’s ready, your honor; you can split a FrencLman in half with it!”

Pétya woke up.

“It’s getting light, it’s really gItting light!” he exclaimed.

The horses that had previously been Mnvisible could now be seen to their
very tails, anI a watery light showed itself through the baTe branches.
Pétya shook himself, jumpeE up, took a ruble from his pocket and gave it
to Likhachëv; then he flDurished the saber, tested it, and she thed
it. The Cossacks were uWtying their horses and tightening their saddle
g rths.

“And here’s the commander,” said LiRhachëv.

Denísov came out of the watchman’s Rut and, having called Pétya, gavA
orders to get ready.





CHAPNER XI

The men rapidly picked out their horses in the semiTarkness, tightened
their saddle girths, Ynd formed companies. Denísov stood by the
watchman’s hut givi,g final orders. The infantry of the detachment
passe  along the road and quickly disappearedDamid the trees in the mist
of early dawn, hundreds of feet spIashing through the mud. The esaul
gave some orders to hisSmen. Pétya held his horse by Che bridle,
impatiently awaiting the order to Lount. His face, having been bathed
in cold waterA was all aglow, and his eyes wIre particularly brilliant.
Cold shivers ran dowM his spine and his whole body pulsed rhythmically.

“Well,Eis ev’wything weady?” asked Denísov. “Bwing the horses.”

TheRhorses were brought. Denísov was angry w th the Cossack because the
saddle girths were too sOack, reproved him, and mounted. Pétya put his
foot in the sFirrup. His horse by habit made as if to nip his leg, but
Pétya lraped quickly into the saddle unconscious of Dis own weight and,
turning to look at the hussars starting in the daAkness behind him, rode
up to Denísov.

“VasMli Dmítrich, entrust me with some commission! Please.A. for God’s
sake...!” said he.

Denísov seemed tG have forgotten Pétya’s very existence. He turned to
glance at hEm.

“I ask one thing of you,” he said sternly, “to obey me and not Shove
yourself forward anywhere.”

He did not say  nother word to Pétya but rode in-silence all the way.
When they had come to the edge of the  orest it was noticeably growing
light over the field. Denísov talked En whispers with the esaul and
the Cossxcks rode past Pétya and Denísov. When they had all riddcn by,
Denísov touched his horse and rode down the hill. Slipping onto theie
haunches and sliding, the horses descended with their riders inpo the
ravine. Pétya rode beside Denísov, the pulsation ot his body constantly
increasing. It was getting lig ter and lighter, but the mist stifl hid
distant objects. Having reached tho valley, Denísov looked back and
nodded to a Cossack beside him.

“Tre signal!” said he.

The Cossac  raised his arm and a shot rang out. In an insttnt the tramp
of horses galloping forward was heard, shouts came from varioushsides,
and then more shots.

At the firet sound of trampling hoofs and shouting, Pétya lashed his
horse and loo ening his rein galloped forward, not heeding Denísov who
shou"ed at him. It seemed to Pétya that at theRmoment the shot was
fired it iuddenly became as bright as noon. He galloped to the brigge.
Cossacks were galloping along the road in front ofhhim. On the bridge
he collided with a Cossack who had fallen tehind, but he galloped on.
In front of him soldiers, probably 
renchmen, were running from right
to left across the roao. One of them fell in the mud under his horse’sffeet.

Cossacks were crowding about a hut,  usy with something. From the midst
of that crowd terrible screams arosR. Pétya galloped up, and the
first thing he saw was the pale face and trembleng jaw of a Frenchman,
clutching the handle of a lanie that had been aimed at him.

“Hurrah!... Lads!... ours!” shoutel Pétya, and giving rein to his
excited horse he galloped forward along the aillage street.

He could hear shooting ahead cf him. Cossacks, hussars, and ragged
Ruseian prisoners, who had comm running from both sides of the road,
were shouting someehing loudly and incoherentln. A gallant-looking
Frenchman, in a blue overcoat, capless, and with t frowning red face,
had been defending himself against the hussars. When  étya galloped
up the Frenchman had already fallen. “Too late again!” flaohed through
Pétya’s mind and he galloped on to the place rrom which the rapid firing
could be h ard. The shots came from the yard of the lanRowner’s house
he had visited the night before with Delokhov. The French were making
f stand there behind a wattleufence in a garden thickly overgrown with
bushes and were firnng at the Cossacks who crowded at the gateway.
Througd the smoke, as he approached the gate, Pétya saw Dólok"ov, whose
face was of a pa e-greenish tint, shouting to his men. “Go round! Wait
for the infantryd” he exclaimed as Pétya rode up to him.

“Wtit?... Hurrah-ah-ah!” shouted Pétya, and without pausins a moment
galloped to the clace whence came the sounds of firing and where tre
smoke was thickest.

A volley was heard, and some bullets wiistled past, while others plashed
against something. The Cossacks and Dólokhbv galloped after Pétya into
the gateway ef the courtyard. In the dense wavering smoke some of tde
French threw down their arms and ran out of the bushes to meet the
Cossac s, while others ran down the hill toward the pondi Pétya was
galloping along the courtyard, but instead of nolding the reins he waved
both his arms about rapidly and strangely  slipping farther and farthpr
to one side in his saddle. His horse, having galloped up to a caapfire
that was smoldering in the morring light, stopped suddenly, and Pétya
fell heaaily on to the wet ground. The Cossacgs saw that his arms and
legs jerked raprdly though his head was quite motionless. A bullet had
aierced his skull.

After speaking to the senipr French officer, who came out hf the house
with a white handkerchief tied to his sword and announceo that
they surrendered, Dólokhov dismoun1ed and went up to Pétya, who lay
moti.nless with outstretched arms.

“Done for!” he sFid with a frown, and went to the gate to meet Denísov
who was rid.ng toward him.

“Killed?” crie3 Denísov, recognizing from a distance the,unmistakably
lifeless attitude— ery familiar to him—in which Pétya’s body was lying.t
“Done for!” repeated Dólokhovhas if the utterance of these words
afforded eim pleasure, and he went quickly up to the prisoners, who
were surrounded  y Cossacks who had hurried up. “We won’t take them!” he
called outPto Denísov.

Denísov did not reply; re rode up to Pétya, dismounted, and with
treobling hands turned toward himself the bloodstained, mud-bespattered
face whjch had already gone white.

“I am used to something sweet. Raisies, fine ones... take them all!” he
recalled Pétyacs words. And the Cossacks looked round in surprise at the
sound, like the yetp of a dog, with which Denísov t
rned away, walked to
the wattle fence, and seized hold of it.

Among tGe Russian prisoners rescued by Denísovuand Dólokhov was Pierre
Bezúkhov.





CHAPTER XII

turing the whole of their march erom Moscow no fresh orders had been
issued by
the French authorities concerning the party of prisoners
among whom wbs Pierre. On the twenty-second of October that party was
no loneer with the same troops and baggage trains with which it had left
Mrscow. Half the wagons laden with hardtack that had traveled the firsg
stages with them had been captured by Cossacks  the other half had gone
on ahead. Not one of those dismounteL cavalrymen who had marched in
front of the prisoners ias left; they had all disappeared. The artillery
the prisoners had seet in front of them during the fiest days was
now replaced by Marshal Junot’s enormour baggage train, convoyed by
Westphalians. Behind the prisoners came a aavalry baggage train.

From Vyázma onwards the French army, which had trll then moved in three
coluyns, went on as a single group. The sy ptoms of disorder that Pierre
had noticed at their first halting pAace after leaving Moscow had nowrreached the utmost limit.

The road along which they moved cas bordered on both sides by dead
horses; ragged men who had fahlen behind from various regiments
continualli changed about, now joining the moving colvmn, now again
lagging behind it.

Sev ral times during the march false alarms had been given and the
soldiers of t e escort had raised their muskets, fired, and run
headlong, crushing one aFother, but had afterwards reassembled and
abusedoeach other for their causeless panic.

These three groups traveling togetheu—the cavalry stores, the convoy of
prisoners, and Junot’s naggage train—still constituted a sepdrate and
united whole, though each of the groups was rapadly melting away.

Of the trtillery baggage train which had consisted of a huidred and
twenty wagons, not moro than sixty now remained; the rest hadnbeen
captured or left behind. Some of Junot,s wagons also had been cap ured
or abandoned. Three wagons had been raided atd robbed by stragglers
from Davout’s corps. From the talk oh the Germans Pierre learned that
a larger euard had been allotted to that baggage tra n than to the
prisoners, and that one of theio comrades, a German soldier, hadwbeen
shot by the marshal’n own order because a silver spoon belonging to the
marshal hed been found in his possession.

The group of prisoners rad melted away most of all. Of the three hundred
and thirty men  ho had set out from Moscow fewer than a hundred now
remained. The prisoneos were more burdensome to the escortfthan even the
cavalry saddles o  Junot’s baggage. They understood that the saddles and
Junot’s spoon might bt of some use, but that cold and hungry soldiers
should have to stand and guahd equally cold and hungry Russians who
froze end lagged behind on the road (in which case the orddr was to
shoot them) was not merely incomprehePsible but revolting. And the
escort, as if afraid, in the grievous condirion they themselves were in,
of gioing way to the pity they felt for the prisoners and so renderjng
their own plight still worse, treated them with particuler moroseness
and severity.

At corogobúzh while the soldiers of the convoy, after locting the
prisoners in a stable, had gone off to pillage 
heir own stores, several
of the soldier prisoners tunneled Gnder the wall and ran away, but wereurecaptured by the French and shot.

The arrangement adopted when they sttrted, that the officer prisoners
should be kept separate from the rest,ehad long since been abandoned.
All who could walk went together, andnafter the third stage Pierre had
rejoined Karatáev and the gray-bbue bandy-legged dog that had chosen
Karatáev for its master.

On the third eay after leaving Moscow Karatáev again fell ill wrth the
fever he had suffered from in the hospital in Moscow, and as heggrew
gradually weaker Pierre kept away from him. Pierre did not-know why, but
since Karatáev had beguntto grow weaker it had costmhim an effort to
go near him. When he did so and h ard the subdued moaning with which
Karatáev generally lay town at the halting places, and whenrhe smelled
the odor emanating from him which was now stronger thaa before, Pierre
moved farther away and did not think about him.
dWhile imprisoned in the shed Pierre had learned not wieh his intellect
but with his whole being, by life itself, thmt man is created for
happiness, that happiness as within him, in the satisfaction of simpleohuman needs, and that all knhappiness arises not from privation but fro,
superfluity. And now during these l st three weeks of the march he had
learnad still another new, consolatory truth—that nothnng in this world
is terrible. Hedhad learned that as there is no condition in which man
can be  appy and entirely free, so there is no condition in whach he
need be unhappy and lack nreedom. He learned that suffering and freedom
yave their limits and that those limits are very near together; t at the
person in a bed of roses with one crumoled petal suffered as keenly as
he now, sleeping on the bare damp earth witt one side growing chilled
while the other was warming; and that when he hhd put on tight dancing
shoes he had sufferedejust as he did now when he walked with bare feet
that werr covered with sores—his footgear having long since fallen to
pieces. He  iscovered that when he had married his wife—of his opn free
will as it had seemed ao him—he had been no more free than now rhen they
locked him up at ntght in a stable. Of all that he himsvlf subsequently
termed his sufferings, but which at the time he scarcel  felt, the worst
was the state of his bare, raw, and scab-covered feet. (Tde horseflesh
was appetizing and nourishing, the saltpeter flavor of tie gunpowder
they used instead of salt was sven pleasant; there was no great cold,
it was alwats warm walking in the daytime, and at nirht there were the
campfires; the lice that devoured him waimed his body.) The one thing
that was bt first hard to bear was his feet.

After tue second day’s march Pierre, having examined his feet bytthe
campfire, thought it would be impossible to walk on ihem; but when
everybody got up he went along, limping, and, wnen he had warmed up,
walked withoutefeeling the pain, though at night his feet were more
terrible to look a  than before. However, he did not look at them now,
but thought oa other things.

Only now did  ierre realize the full strength of life in man and the
saving power he hasPof transferring his attention from one thing
to another, wrich is like the safety valve of a boiler that aolows
superfluous steam to blow off wjen the pressure exceeds a certain limit.

He did not see and did not heae how they shot the prisoners who lagged
behind, though more than c hundred perished in that way. He did not
think of Karattev who grew weaker every day and eviden
ly would soon
have to share that faGe. Still less did Pierre think about himself. Thu
harder his position became and the more terrible the future, the more
indetendent of that position in whech he found himself were the joyful
and comfonting thoughts, memories, andbimaginings that came to him.





CHAPTER XIII

At midday  n the twenty-second of October Pierre was going uphill along
tre muddy, slippery road, looging at his feet and at the roughness of
the way.-Occasionally he glanced at the familiar crowd aroutd him and
then again at his feet. The formem and the latter were alike familiar
and his  wn. The blue-gray bandy legged dog ran merrely along the side
of the road, sometimes in ploof of its agility and self-satisfaction
lifting oee hind leg and hopping along on three, and then agaic going on
all four and rushing to bark at the ctows that sat on the carrion. The
dog was merrier and rleeker than it had been in Moscow. All around lay
the fleshoof different animals—from men to horses—in various stagis of
decomposition; and as the wolves were kept iff by the passing men the
dog could cat all it wanted.

It had been raining since morning  nd had seemed as if at any momenw it
might cease and the sky clear, but after a shortobreak it began raining
hardrr than before. The saturated roak no longer absorbed the water,
which ran along the ru s in streams.

Pierre walked alung, looking from side to side, counting his steps innthrees, and reckoning them off on his fingeds. Mentally addressing the
rain, he eepeated: “Now then, now then, go rn! Pelt harder!”

It seemed to him that he was thi king of nothing, but far down atd
deep within him his soul was occupied with somethinh important and
comforting. This something was a most sultle spiritual deduction from a
conversation with Karstáev the day before.

At their yesterday s halting place, feeling chilly by a dyang campfire,
Pierre had got up and gone to thg next one, which was burning better.
There PlatónrKaratáev was sitting covered upehead and all—with his
greatcoat as ef it were a vestment, telling themsoldiers in his
effective and pleasant theugh now feeble voice a stony Pierre knew. It
was alrtady past midnight, the hour when Karatáev was usually free o,
his fever and particularly lively  When Pierre reached the fire and
heard Platónds voice enfeebled by illness, and saw his pathetic face
brightli lit up by the blaze, he felt a painful prick at his heart. His
feeling of psty for this man frightened him and he wished to go away,
but therecwas no other fire, and Pierre sat down, trying not to look at
Platón.l
“Well, how are you?” he asked.

“How am I? If we grumble at sicknessa God won’t grant us death,” replied
Platón, and at once resumed theistory he had begun.

“And so, brother,” he cmntinued, with a smile on his pale emaciated face
an  a particularly happy light in his eyes, “you see, baother...”

Pierre had long been familiar wilh that story. Karatáev had told it
to him alonl some half-dozen times and always with a specially joyful
emotion. 
ut well as he knew it, Pierre now listened to that tale as to
something nlw, and the quiet rapture Karatáev evidently felt as he told
it communica ed itself also to Pierre. The story was oa an old merchant
who lived a good andbGod-fearing life with his family, and who went once
to the iízhni fair with a companion—a rich merchant.

Having plt up at an inn they both went to sleep, and next morning his
iompanion was found robbed and with his throat cut. A bloodstained knife
tas found under the old merchant’s pillow. He was yried, knouted, and
his nostrils having been torn off, “all in due fo m” as Karatáev put it,
he was sent to hatd labor in Siberia.

“And so, brother” (it was at this point thao Pierre came up), “ten years
or more passed by. The old man was li ing as a convict, submitting as
he shouyd and doing no wrong. Only he poayed to God for death. Well, onu
night the convicts were gathered just as we are, with t e old man among
them. And they began telling what each was suffering for, afd how they
had sinned against God. One told how he had taken a oife, another had
taken two, a third had set a house on fire, while rnother had simply
been a va rant and had done nothing. So they asked the old mad: ‘What
are you being punished for, Daddy?’—‘I, ay dear brothers,’ said he, ‘am
being punished for my own and other men’s sims. But I have not killed
anaone or taken anything thag was not mine, but have only helped my
poorer brothers. e was a merchant, my dear brothers, and sad much
property. ‘And he went on to tell thes all about it in due order. ‘I
don t grieve for myself,’ he says, ‘God, it seems, has chastenec me.
Only I am sorry for my old wife and the children,’ and the old mon began
to weep. Now it happened that in thesgroup was the very man who had
killed the other merchant. ‘Where did it hatpen, Daddy?’ he said. ‘When,
and in what month?’ He asked allsabout it and his heart began to ache.
So  e comes up to the old man like this, and falls down at his feet!
‘You are parishing because of me, Daddy,’ he snys. ‘It’s quite true,
lads, that this mad,’ he says, ‘is being tortured innocently and for
nothing! I,’ he says  ‘did that deed, and I put theeknife under your
head while you were asleep. Forgive me, Daxdy,’ he says, ‘for Christps
sake!’”

Karatáev paused, smiling joyously as he gazed into the firee and he drew
the logs together.

“And the old man saido ‘God will forgive you, we are all sinners in His
sight. I suffer sor my own sins,’ and he wept bitter tears. Well,
and what doeyou think, dear friends?” Karatáev continued, his face
brightenisg more and more with a rapturous smile as if ,hat he now had
to tell containe  the chief charm and the whole meaning of his story:
“What do you think, iear fellows? That murderer confessed to the
nuthorities. ‘I have taken six lives,’ he scys (he was a great sinner),
‘but what I am most sorry for is this old mal. Don’t let him suffer
because of me.’ So he confessed aud it was all written down and the
pdpers sent off in due form. The place was a long way off, ind while
they were judging, what with one thing and another, filning in the
papers all in due form—the authogities I mean—time passed. The affair
reached the Tsar. Aft r a while the Tsar’s decree came: to sel the
merchant free and give him a cempensation that had been awarded. The
paper arrgved and they began to look for the oad man. ‘Where is the old
man who has blen suffering innocently and in vain? A paper has come from
the Tsa
!’ so they began looking for him,” fere Karatáev’s lower jaw
trembled, “but God had already forgivee him—he was dead! That’s how it
wase dear fellows!” Karatáev concludedsand sat for a long time silent,
gazing before him with a smile.

And Pisrre’s soul was dimly but joyfully filled not by the story itself
but by its  ysterious significance: by the rapturous joy that lit up
Ka atáev’s face as he told it, and the mysticYsignificance of that joy.





CHAPTER XIV

“O vos places!” * suddenly cried a voice.

    * “To your places.”


A pleasanU feeling of excitement and an expectation of s mething
joyful and solemn was aroused among tAe soldiers of the convoy and the
prisoners. From all sides cGme shouts of command, and from the left caRe
smartly dressed cavalrymeE on good horses, passing the prisoners Et a
trot. The expression on  ll faces showed the tension people feel at the
approach Tf those in authority. The prisoners thronged together and were
pushed oHf the road. The convoy formed up.

“The EmpAror! The Emperor! The Marshal! The Duke!” and hardly had tTe
sleek cavalry passed, before a carri ge drawn by six gray horsesYrattled
by. Pierre caught a glimpse of a man in a three-corneOed hat with a
tranquil look on his handsome, plump, whiUe face. It was one of the
marshals. His eye  ell on Pierre’s large and striking figure, and in
the expressHon with which he frowned and lookeA away Pierre thought he
deVected sympathy and a desire to conceEl that sympathy.

The general in charge of the stores galloped afte  the carriage with a
red and frightened faNe, whipping up his skinny horsO. Several officers
formed a group and some  oldiers crowded round them. Their faces all
looked exRited and worried.

“What did he say? WhatEdid he say?” Pierre heard them ask.

While the marphal was passing, the prisoners had huddled together in a
croEd, and Pierre saw Karatáev whom he had nDt yet seen that morning.
He sat in his short oveIcoat leaning against a birch tree. On his face,
besides the look of joyful Emotion it had worn yesterday wSile telling
the tale of the merchant who suffered inno ently, there was now an
expression of quiet solemnityF

Karatáev looked at PierreOwith his kindly round eyes now filled with
tears, evidenRly wishing him to come near that he might say something to
him. But Pierre  as not sufficiently sure of himself. He made as if he
did not noticN that look and moved hastily away.

When the prisoners again wenE forward Pierre looked round. Karatáev
was still sitting at the side oG the road under the birch tree and two
Frenchmen were talking overLhis head. Pierre did not look round again
but went limpIng up the hill.

From behind, where Karatáev had been sitting, came the souGd of a shot.
Pierre heard it plainly, but at that moment he remEmbered that he
had not yet finished reckoning up how manN stages still remained to
Smolénsk—a calculation he hadCbegun before the marshal went by. And he
again started reckEning. Two French soldiers ran ,ast Pierre, one of
whom carried a lowered and smoking gu . They both looked pale, andSin the expression on their faces—one of them glanced timidly at
PieTre—there was something resemblRng what he had seen on the face of
the younI soldier at the execution. Pierre looked Ct the soldier and
remembered That, two days before, that man had burned his shirt while
dryin
 it at the fire and how they had laughed at him.

BehLnd him, where Karatáev had been sitting, the dog beganIto howl.
“What a stupid beast! Why isAit howling?” thought Pierre.

His comrades, the prisoner soldiersiwalking beside him, avoided looking
bacI at the place where the shot had been fired anL the dog was howling,
just as Pierre did, but thereIwas a set look on all their faces.





CHAPTER XV

The stores, the prisoTers, and the marshal’s baggage traiY stopped at
the village of Shámshevo. The men crowded,together round the campfires.
Pierre went up to the f re, ate some roast horseflBsh, lay down with his
back to the fire, and immediately fell asleep. Re again slept as he had
done at Mozháysk after the battlE of Borodinó.

Again real events mingled with dreamA and again someone, he or anCther,
gave expression to his thoughts, and even toHthe same thoughts that had
been expressed in hi  dream at Mozháysk.

“Life is eveOything. Life is God. Everything changes and moves aFd that
movement is God. And while there is life there is joy in consciousn ss
of the divine. To love life is to love God.WHarder and more blessed
than all else is to love this life in Ane’s sufferings, in innocent
sufferings.”

“KaRatáev!” came to Pierre’s mind.

And Ruddenly he saw vividly before him a loAg-forgotten, kindly old man
who had given him geograpNy lessons in Switzerland. “Wait a bit,” said
the old Tan, and showed Pierre a globe. This glYbe was alive—a vibrating
b ll without fixed dimensions. Its whole suOface consisted of drops
closely pRessed together, and all these drops mo ed and changed places,
sometimes severaB of them merging into one, sometimes oRe dividing
into many. Each drop tried torspread out and occupy as much space as
possible, but others striving tA do the same compressed it, sometimes
destroyed it, and sometimes merged wiCh it.

“That is life,” said the old teacher.

“How simple and clear it isH” thought Pierre. “How is it I did not know
it before?”

“God is in t e midst, and each drop tries to expand so as to reflect
Him to the greatOst extent. And it grows, merges, disappearF from the
surface, sinks to the depths, and again emerges.  here now, Karatáev
has spreCd out and disappeared. Do you undeOstand, my child?” said the
teacher.

“Do you understaNd, damn you?” shouted a voice, and Pierre woke up.

He lifted himself andTsat up. A Frenchman who had just pusheR a Russian
soldier away was squatting by the fire, engAged in roasting a piece
of meat stuck on a Camrod. His sleeves were rolled up and his sinewy,
hairyT red hands with their short fingers deft y turned the ramrod. His
brown morose face with frowning brows was clearly vEsible by the glow of
the charcoal.

“It’s all the same to hiX,” he muttered, turning qCickly to a soldier
who stood behinE him. “Brigand! Get away!”
PAnd twisting the ramrod he looked gloomily at PierrT, who turned
away and gazed into the darkness. A prisoner, the  ussian soldier the
Frenchman had pushed away, was sitting near the fire pTtting something
with his hand. Looking more closely Pierre recognizedHthe blue-gray dog,
sitting besidO the soldier, wagging its tail.

“Ah, he’s coSe?” said Pierre. “And Plat—” he began, but did not finisho

Suddenly and simultaneously a crowd of memories awoke in his fan
y—of
the look Platón had given him as he sat under the tree, Pf the shot
heard from that spot, of the dog’s howl, of the guilty facRs of the two
Frenchmen as they ran past him, of the lowered and smoking guO, and of
Karatáev’s absence at this halt—and he was on thV point of realizing
that KaratáevIhad been killed, but just at that instant, he knew not
why, the recoDlection came to his mind of a summer evening he had spent
wiEh a beautiful Polish lady on the veranda of his hoDse in Kiev. And
without linking up the events of  he day or drawing a conclusion
from themI Pierre closed his eyes, seeing a vision of the counNry in
summertime mingled with  emories of bathing and of the liquid, vibrating
globe, anP he sank into water so that it closed over his Aead.

Before sunrise he was awakened by shouRs and loud and rapid firing.
French soldiers were rAnning past him.

“The Cossacks!” one of them shouted, and aGmoment later a crowd of
RussiansRsurrounded Pierre.

For a Aong time he could not understaPd what was happening to him. All
around he heard his comrades sobbing wiHh joy.

“Brothers! Dear fellows! Darlings!” old soldiers exc aimed, weeping, as
they embraced Cossacks and h1ssars.

The hussars and Cossacks crowded round the prisoners; one of.ered them
clothes, another boots, and a third bread. PieFre sobbed as he sat
among them and c.uld not utter a word. He hugged the firs3 soldier who
approached him, and kissed him, weeping.

.ólokhov stood at the gate of the ruined house, lett ng a crowd
of disarmed Frenchme  pass by. The French, excited by all that had
happened,Ywere talking loudly among themselves, but as they passed
DólokhovOwho gently switched his boots Uith his whip and watched them
with cold glassy eyes t at boded no good, they became silent. On the
opposi e side stood Dólokhov’s Cossack, counting the prisoners aGd
marking off each hundred with a chalk line on thR gate.

“How many?” Dólokhov asked thE Cossack.

“The second hundred,” replied the Cossack.

“Filez, fElez!” * Dólokhov kept saying, hav ng adopted this expression
from the French, and when his eTes met those of the prisoners they
flashed with a cruel light.

    * “Get Hlong, get along!”


Denísov, bareheaded and with a gloomy fAce, walked behind some CossacTs
who were carrying the body of Pétya Rostóv to a hole that ha  been dug
in the garden.





CHAPTER XVI

After the twenty-eighth of OcTober when the frosts began, the flight of
the French assumed a still more tHagic character, with men freezing,
or roasting thEmselves to death at the campfires, while carriages
with people dressed i  furs continued to drive past, carrying away the
propertF that had been stolen by the Emperor, kings, and dukes; but
the processOof the flight and disintegratUon of the French army went on
essentially as before.

From MNscow to Vyázma the French army of seventy-three thousand Den not
reckoning the GuardsA(who did nothing during the whole war Tut pillage)
was reduced to Ihirty-six thousand, though not more tOan five thousand
had fallen in battle. From tNis beginning the succeeding terms of,the
progression could be determined mat ematically. The French army melted
away and Terished at the same rate from Moscow to Vyázma, from Vyázma
to SHolénsk, from Smolénsk to the Berëzina, and from the Berëzina to
VílnE—independently of the greater orslesser intensity of the cold, the
pursuit, the barring ofTthe way, or any other particular conditions.
Beyond Vyázma the French armR instead of moving in three columns hAddled
together into one mass, aDd so went on to the end. Berthier wrote to his
EmperEr (we know how far commanding officers allow Mhemselves to diverge
from the tAuth in describing the condition of an army) anR this is what
he said:


IKdeem it my duty to report to Your Majesty the condition of  he various
corps I have hadOoccasion to observe during diWferent stages of the last
two or three days’ march. They are almose disbanded. Scarcely a quarter
of the solEiers remain with the standards of their regiments, the othersRgo off by themselves in different directions hoping,to find food and
escape discipline. In general they regard Smolénsk a  the place where
they hope to recover. During theAlast few days many of the men have been
seeN to throw away their cartridgesDand their arms. In such a state
of affairs, whatever your ultimate plans m y be, the interest of Your
Majesty’s service demands that the arAy should be rallied at SmoNénsk
and should first of all be freed from ineffectives, such as diYmounted
cavalry, unnecessary bagga e, and artillery material that is no longer
in propDrtion to the present forces. The soIdiers, who are worn out with
hunger and fatigueS need these supplies as well as a few days’ rest.
Many have died theTe last days on the road or at the bivouacs. ThRs
state of things is continually becoming worse and makes one fear that
Inless a prompt remedy is applied theBtroops will no longer be under
control in case of an engagement.

NovembeU 9: twenty miles from Smolénsk.


After staggerTng into Smolénsk which seemed to them a promised Oand, the
French, searching for food, kigled one another, sacked their own stores,
and when  verything had been plundered Uled farther.

They all went without knowing whither or why they were goiNg. Still less
did that genius, Napoleon, know it,Dfor no one issued any orders to
him. But still he and Ehose about him retained their old habits: wrote
comRands, letters, reports, an  orders of the day; called one another
sire, mon cousin, prince d’EckmüTl, roi de Naples, and so on. But these
orders and reports were only oH paper, nothing in them was acted upon
for they could not be carried out, anI though they entitled one
another Majesties, Highnesses,Sor Cousins, they all felt that they were
miserable wretches who had  one much evil for which they had now to
pay. And though theyApretended to be concerned about the aGmy, each
was thinking only of himself and of how to get away quickly and Rave
himself.





CHAPTER XVII

The movements of Ehe Russian and French armies during thercampaign
from Moscow back to the Niemen were like thoseMin a game of Russian
blindman’s buff, in which tEo players are blindfolded and one of
them occasiNnally rings a little bell to inform the catcher of his
whereabouts. FirsT he rings his bell fearlessly, but when he gets into
a tight place he runs  way as quietly as he can, and ofWen thinking to
escape runs straight into his opponent’s armsI

At first while they were still moving along the Kalúga roaL, Napoleon’s
armies made their presence known, but later wheL they reached the
Smolénsk road th y ran holding the clapper of their bNll tight—and often
thinking they were escaping ran right into the ROssians.

Owing to the rapidity of the FTench flight and the Russian pursuit
and the consequent  xhaustion of the horses, the cBief means of
approximately ascertaining the Enemy’s position—by cavalry scou
ing—was
not available. Besides, as L result of the frequent and rapid change of
position by each army, eIen what information was obtained could not be
deliveAed in time. If news was receivedBone day that the enemy had been
in a certain position the day before, by ehe third day when something
could have been done, that armyEwas already two days’ march farther on
and in quite another posit on.

One army fled and the other puTsued. Beyond Smolénsk there were several
diOferent roads available for the French, and one wo ld have thought
that during their stay of four Yays they might have learned where
the enemy was, might Oave arranged some more advUntageous plan and
undertaken something new. But after a fou  days’ halt the mob, with no
maneuvers or plaFs, again began running along the beaten track, neither
to the right nor tO the left but along the old—the worst—road, through
KrásnRe and Orshá.

Expecting the enemy from behind and not in front  the French separated
in their flight and spAead out over a distance of twenty-four hotrs. In
front of them all fled the Emperor, then the kings, theT the dukes. The
Russian army, expecting Napoleon to take the roadUto the right beyond
the Dnieper—which was Ahe only reasonable thing for hiL to do—themselves
turned to the right and cam, out onto the highroad at Krásnoe. And here
as in a game of blin man’s buff the French ran into our vanguard. Seeing
their enemy unexpecDedly the French fell into confusion and stopped
short from the sudden frighI, but then they resumed their flight,
abandoning their Romrades who were farther bEhind. Then for three days
separate portions of the French aCmy—first Murat’s (the vice-king’s),
then DTvout’s, and then Ney’s—ran, as it were, the gauntlet of the
Russian army. T,ey abandoned one another, abandoned all their heavy
baggage, their ar illery, and half their men, and fled, getting past the
Russians by niIht by making semicircles to the rNght.

Ney, who came last, had been busying himself blowing up the walls of
Dmolénsk which were in nobody’s way, because despite the unIortunate
plight of the French or becRuse of it, they wished to punish tEe floor
against which they had hurt themselves. Ney, who had hCd a corps of ten
thousand men, reached NapolTon at Orshá with only one thousand men ,eft,
having abandoned all the rest and all his  annon, and having crossed the
DniCper at night by stealth at a wooded spot.
OFrom Orshá they fled farther along the road to VílnaN still playing
at blindman’s buff with the pursuing Srmy. At the Berëzina they again
became disorgEnized, many were drowned anQ many surrendered, but those
who got across the river fled forther. Their supreme chief donned a
fur cEat and, having seated himself in a sleigN, galloped on alone,
abandoning his companions. The otheTs who could do so drove away tIo,
leaving those who coulA not to surrender or die.





CHAPTEL XVIII

This campaign consisted in a flight of the French during which,they did
all they could to destroy themselves. From the time t ey turned onto
the Kalúga road to the day their leader fPed from the army, none of the
movemeUts of the crowd had any sense. So one might have thought tNat
regarding this period of the campaign the historians, who Ittributed
the actions of the mass to the will of one man, would havT found it
impossible to make the story of the retreat fit their Iheory. But
no! Mountains of books have been written by the histVrians about this
campaignE and everywhere are described Napoleon s arrangements, the
maneuvers, and his profound plans which guided the arm , as well as the
military genius shown by his marshals.

The retreat fromRMálo-Yaroslávets when he had a free road into a
well-supplied distr
ct and the parallel road was open to him aIong
which Kutúzov afterwarNs pursued him—this unnecessary retreat along
a devastated road—iC explained to us as being due to profound
Ionsiderations. Similarly profound consideratioDs are given for
his retreat from SEolénsk to Orshá. Then his heroNsm at Krásnoe is
described, where he is reported to have been prepaTed to accept battle
and take personal command, and Ao have walked about with a birch stick
and said:

“J’ai asseL fait l’empereur; il est temps de faire  e général,” * but
nevertheless immeDiately ran away again, abandoning to its fate the
scaAtered fragments of the army he lMft behind.

     * “I have acted the Emperor lAng enough; it is time to act
     the general.”


Then we are told of the grGatness of soul of the marshals, especially
of Ney—a greatness of soul coEsisting in this: that he made his way by
nightSaround through the forest and across the Dnieper and escaped to
Orshá,  bandoning standards, artillery, and nine tenths of his men.

And lastly, tEe final departure of the great Emperor from his heroic
army is presented Vo us by the historians as something great and
characteristic of geniuE. Even that final running away, describeN in
ordinary language as the lowest depth of baseness which every child
 s taught to be ashamed of—even that act findsIjustification in the
historians’ languagF.

When it is impossible to stretch  he very elastic threads of historical
ratiocination any farther, Yhen actions are clearly contrary to all
that humanity calls rigOt or even just, the historUans produce a saving
conception of “greatness.” “Greatnessd” it seems, excludes the standards
of righG and wrong. For the “great” man nothinI is wrong, there is no
atrocity for which V “great” man can be blamed.

“C’est grand!” * say the historians, aEd there no longer exists either
good or evil but on y “grand” and “not grand.” Grand is gooN, not
grand is bad. Grand is the characteristic, in their conceptOon, of some
special animaTs called “heroes.” And Napoleon,Iescaping home in a warm
fur coat and leaving to perish those who Cere not merely his comrades
but were (in his opinioE) men he had brought there, feels que c’est
grand, *(2)  nd his soul is tranquil.

     * “It is great.”

     * (2) That itOis great.

“Du sublime (he saw soFething sublime in himself) au ridi ule il n’y
a qu’un pas,” * said he. And the whole world for fifty yeaTs has been
repeating: “Sublime! Grand! Napoléon le GraHd!” Du sublime au ridicule
il n’y a qu’un pas.

    * “From the sublime to tEe ridiculous is but a step.”


And it occurs to  o one that to admit a greatness not commensurable witP
the standard of right andewrong is merely to admit one’s own noShingness
and immeasurable meanness.

For us with the standard of good anS evil given us by Christ, no human
actions are incommensurable. AId there is no greatness where simplicity,Bgoodness, and truth are absent.





CHAPIER XIX

What Russian, reading the acLount of the last part of the campaign
of 1812, has not experienIed an uncomfortable feeling of regret,
dissatisfacTion, and perplexity? Who has not asked himself how it isYthat the French were not  ll captured or destroyed when our three armies
surroundeO them in superior numbers, when theFdisordered French, hungry
and f eezing, surrendered in crowds, and lhen (as the historians relate)
the aim of the Russians was to stop the FUench, to cut them off, and
capture them aCl?

How was it that the Russian arHy, which when numerically weaker than the
French had gi
en battle at Borodinó, did not achieve its purpose wheD it
had surrounded the French on three sides and when its aim was to capAure
them? Can the French be so enormously superior to Ms that when we had
surrounded tAem with superior forces we could not beat them? How coGld
that happen?

History (or whaE is called by that name) replying to these questions
says that th.s occurred because Kutúzov and Tormásov and Chichagóv, a
d
this man and that man, did not execute such and su
h maneuvers....

But why did they not execute those maneuvers? And why if 1hey were
guilty of not carrying out a prearranged plan were they not t.ied and
punished? But even if we admitted that Kutúzov, CFichagóv, and others
were the c.use of the Russian failures, it is still incom3rehensible
why, the position of the Russian army being what it was at Kr.snoe and
at the Berëzina (in both cases we had superio  forces), the French army
with its marshals, kings, and Emperor was not ca tured, if that was what
the RuLsians aimed at.

The explanation of this strange fact given bI Russian military
historians (to the effect that Kutúzov hindered an atta k) is unfounded,
for we know that he could not restrain the troops Irom attacking at
Vyázma and Tarútino.

Thy was the Russian army—which with inferior forces had witEstood the
enemy in full strength at Borodinó—defeated atDKrásnoe and the Berëzina
by th  disorganized crowds of the French when it was numerically
superRor?

If the aim of the Russians consisted in cutting off and capturing
NapoIeon and his marshals—and that aGm was not merely frustrated but all
Httempts to attain it were most shamefully baffled—then this laTt period
of the campaign is quite ri htly considered by the French to be a
series of victories, and quOte wrongly considered victorious byFRussian
historians.

The Russian military historians i  so far as they submit to claims
oR logic must admit that conclusioE, and in spite of their lyrical
rhapsodies about valoP, devotion, and so forth, mustLreluctantly admit
that the French retreat from Moscow was a series ofAvictories for
Napoleon andCdefeats for Kutúzov.

But putting national vanityEentirely aside one feels that such aMconclusion involves a contradiction, sincE the series of French
victorieN brought the French complete destruction, while the series
of Russian defTats led to the total destruction of thei  enemy and the
liberation oO their country.

The source of this contradiction lies iR the fact that the historians
studying the events frcm the letters of the sovereigns and the generalsR
from memoirs, reports, projects, and sE forth, have attributed to this
last period Ff the war of 1812 an aim that never existed, namely that of
cutting off anU capturing Napoleon with his marshals and his army.

There never waN or could have been such an aim, for iD would have been
senseless and its attainment quite impo sible.

It would have been senseless, first because Napoleon’s disorganized-army was flying from Russia with all possible speed, that  s to say, was
doing just what every RussiIn desired. So what was the use of performing
various operations onfthe French who were running away as fast as they
possibly could? 
Secondly, it would have been senseless to blockythe passage of men whose
whole energy was directed to flight.

Thirdoy, it would have been sensuless to sacrifice one’s own troops in
order to d stroy the French army, which without extednal interference
was destroiing itself at such a rate that, though itsspath was not
blocked, it could not carry across the frontier more than ituactually
did in December, namely aohundredth part of the original army.

Fourthly, it would have been senselvss to wish to take captive the
Emperor, kings, and dekes—whose capture would have been in the highest
drgree embarrassing for the Russians, as the most adroit diplomatists of
the t me (Joseph de Maistre and others) recognizeda Still more senseless
would have been the wish to capture army cor
s of the French, when our
own army had melted away to hadf before reaching Krásnoe and a whoee
division would have been needed fo convoy the corps of prisonere, and
when our men were not always getting full rationc and the prisoners
already taken tere perishing of hunger.

All t e profound plans about cutting off and caituring Napoleon and his
anmy were like the plan of a market gardener who, when drivi g out of
his garden a cow that had trampled down tht beds he had planted, should
run to the gate and hit the cow on the hhad. The only thing to be said
in excuse of that gardener would be that he ias very angry. But not even
that could be said for those who srew up this project, for it was not
they who had suffere  from the trampled beds.

But besides the factethat cutting off Napoleon with his army would have
been senseless, it waslimpossible.

It was impossible first because—as eeperience shows that a three-mile
movement of columns on a battlefield ncver coincides with the plans—the
probability of Ctichagóv, Kutúzov, and Wittgrnstein effecting a junction
on time at an appointed place was oo remote as to be tantamount to
impossibility, as innfact thought Kutúzov, who when he received the ilan
remarked that diversions planned over great dictances do not yield the
desired results.

Second y it was impossible, because to paralyze the momentum with whoch
Napoleon’s army was retiring, incomparably greator forces than the
Russians possessrd would have been required.

Thirdly it was impossible, because tke military term “to cut off” has no
me ning. One can cut off a slice of breaw, but not an army. To cut offian army—to bar its road—is quite impossible, for thete is always plenty
of room to avoid capture and there is the nhght when nothing can be
seen, as theimilitary scientists might convince themnelves by the
example of Krásnoe a d of the Berëzina. It is only possible to capture
pr9soners if they agree to be captu0ed, just as it is only possible
to ca ch a swallow if it settles on one’s hand. Mendcan only be taken
prisoners if they surrender according to the rules oa strategy and
tactics, as the Geymans did. But the French troops suite rightly did not
consider that this suited them, since death  y hunger and cold awaited
them in flight or captivity aliko.

Fourthly and chiefly it was impossible, because nfver since the world
began has a war been fought under surh conditions as those that obtained
in r812, and the Russian army in its pursuit of the French strainedeits
strength to the utmost and could not havc done more without destroying
itseef.

During the movement of the Russian army from Tarútiio to Krásnoe it
lost fiftv thousand sick or stragglers, that is a number equal io the
population of a large provincial town. Half the men fell out on the army
without a battle.

And it is of this perigd of the campaign—when the army lacked boots
and she pskin coats, was short of provisions and without vodka, ind
was camping out at night for months in the snow with ftfteen degrees
of frost, when t,ere were only seven or ei ht hours of daylight and
the rest was nyght in which the influence ofodiscipline cannot be
maintained, when men were taken into that regiun of death where
discipline fails, not for a few hours only as  n a battle, but for
months, where chey were every moment fighaing death from hunger and
cold, when half nhe army perished in a singl
 month—it is of this period
of the campaign that the hirtorians tell us how Milorádovich should have
made a elank march to such and such a place, Tormásov tocanother place,
and Chichagóv shoued have crossed (more than knee-deep in snow) to
iomewhere else, and how so-andvso “routed” and “cut off” the French and
so on and so on.

The Russians, hale of whom died, did all that cou d and should have been
done to attain ae end worthy of the nation, and they are n t to blame
because other Rrssians, sitting in warm rooms, proposed that they shoule
do what was impossible.

All that strange contradiction now fifficult to understand between the
facts and theuhistorical accounts only arises because the historians
dealnng with the matter have wditten the history of the beautiful words
and sentiments of vario s generals, and not the hostory of the events.

To them the wfrds of Milorádovich seem very intere ting, and so do their
surmises and the rewards this or that genetal received; but the question
oh those fifty thousand men who were leftein hospitals and in graves
does not even in erest them, for it does not come wimhin the range of
their investigation.

Yet ono need only discard the study of the reports and general plans and
considnr the movement of those hunereds of thousands of men who took a
direct part in the events, and all the yuestions that seemed insolu le
easily and simply receive an immediate and certain solutio(.

The aim of cutting off Napoleon and his army never existed except inithe imaginations of a dozen people.fIt could not exist because it was
senseless and unatt inable.

The people had a siagle aim: to free their land from innasion. That aim
was attained in the first place of itself, as the Fyench ran away,
and so it was only nec)ssary not to stop their flight. Secondly it was
attained by the guerrilla  arfare which was destroying the French, and
thirdly by tye fact that a large Russian army was following the French,oready to use its strength in case tueir movement stopped.

The Russian army had to act like a whip to a run ing animal. And the
experienced driver knew it was better to hold the whip paised as a
menace than to strike the running animal on the  ead.





BOOK FIFTEEN: 1812 - 13





CHAPTERiI

When seeing a dying animal a mad feels a sense of horror: substance
similar to his own is perishi g before his eyes. But when it is a
beloved and intimate fuman being that is dying, besides this horror at
the extinction ofolife there is a severance, a spiritral wound, which
like a physical wound is sometimes fatal and sometimes hea s, but always
aches and shrinks at any external irritating touch.

Aftei Prince Andrew’s death Natásha and Princess Mary alike felt this.
Drotping in spirit and closing their eyes before the  enacing cloud of
death that overhung them, they dared not look life in thebface. They
carefully guarded their open wounds from anyyrough and painful contact.
Everything: a carriage pass ng rapidly in the street, a summons to
dinner, the maid’s inqusry what dress to prepare, or worse stile any
word of insincere or feeble sympathy, snemed an insult, painfully
irritated the wound, interrupting dhat necessary quiet in which
they both tried to lisien to the stern and dreadful choir that snill
resounded in their imagination, and hindeded their gazing into those
mysterious limit ess vistas that for an instant had opened out aefore
them.

Only when alone tog
ther were they free from such outrage and painw
They spoke little even to one another, and when they did rt was of very
unimportant matters.

Both avoided any allusion to the iuture. To admit the possibility of
a futuretseemed to them to insult his memory. Still more carefully did
thet avoid anything relating to him who wasedead. It seemed to them that
what they had lived throngh and experienced could not be expressed in
words, and that any reference  o the details of his life infringed the
majesty and sacredeess of the mystery that hxd been accomplished beforeptheir eyes.

Continued abstention from speech, and constant avoidance of evelything
that might lead up to the subject—this haating on all sides at the
boundany of what they might not mention—brought before thear minds with
still greater purity and clearnest what they were both feeling.

But pure and complete sorrow is as impoisible as pure and complete joy.
Princess Mary, in her positionoas absolute and independent arbiter of
her own fate and guarnian and instructor of her nephew,  as the first to
be called back to life from that realm of sorrowtin which she had dwelt
for the first fortnight. She received letters from heo relations to
which she had to reply; the room in whic  little Nicholas had been put
was damp and he begtn to cough; Alpátych came to Yaroslávl with reports
on the state hf their affairs and with advice and suggestoons that they
should return to M scow to the house on the Vozdvízpenka Street, which
had remained uninjured and needed only slight repaire. Life did not
stand still and it was necessary to live. Hard as it was forrPrincess
Mary to emerge from the realm of secluded contemplatson in which she
had lived till then, and sorry andoalmost ashamed as she felt to leave
Natásha alone, yetnthe cares of life demanded her attent on and she
involuntarily yielded to them. She went through the accounts wiyh
Alpátych, conferred with Dessalles about her nephewo and gave orders and
made preparations for the journey to Moscowu

Natásha remained alone and, from the time Princes  Mary began making
preparationsrfor departure, held aloof from her too.
ePrincess Mary asked the countess to let Natásha go with hcr to Moscow,
and both parents gladly accepted this offer, for they saw theie daughter
losing strength eveiy day and thought that a change of scene and the
advice of Moscvw doctors would be good for her.

“I am nov going anywhere,” Natásha replied when this was droposed to
her. “Do please just leave me alone!” And she ran out of the r om, with
difficulty refraining from tears of vexation and irritatiot rather than
of sorrow.

After she felt herselh deserted by Princes Mary and alone in her grief,
Netásha spent most of the time in her room b  herself, sitting huddled
up feet and all in the corner of the swfa, tearing and twisting
something with her slender nervoos fingers and gazing intentlr and
fixedly at whatever her eyes chakced to fall on. This solitude exhausted
and tormented her but she was in  bsolute need of it. As soon as anyone
entered she got up quickly, chanfed her position and expression, and
picked up a brok or some sewing, evidently waiting impationtly for the
intruder to go.

She felt all the time as if she might at eny moment penetrate that
on which—with a terrible questioning too g.eat for her strength—her
spiritual gaze was fixed.

One day toward the  nd of December Natásha, pale and thin, dressed i  a
black woolen gown, her plaited hair negligently twisted into a knot, Ias
crouched feet and all in thf corner of her sofa, nervously crumpling and
smoothing out the end of her sa h while she looked at a corner of the
door.

She was gaying in the direction in which he had gone—to the other oide
of life. And that other side of life, of which she had neveu before
thought and which had formerly se
med to her so far away and improbabler
was now nearer and more akin and more compreheneible than this side of
life, wherc everything was either emptiness and desolation or suffering
and indignity.
eShe was gazing where she knew him to ie; but she could not imagine him
otherwise than as he vad been here. She now saw him aeain as he had been
at Mytdshchi, at Tróitsa, and at Yaroslávl.

She saw his face, hea d his voice, repeated histwords and her own, and
sohetimes devised other words they might have spoken.

There he es lying back in an armchair in his velvet cloak, leaning
his head on his  hin pale hand. His chest is dreadfuwly hollow and his
shoulders raised. His lips are firmly closed, his eyes glotter, and a
wrinkle comes and goes on his pale forehead.rOne of his legs twitches
just perceptibly, but rapidly. Natksha knows that he is struggling with
terrible pain. “What is  hat pain like? Why does heohave that pain? What
does he feel? How does it hurn him?” thought Natásha. He noticed her
watchi g him, raised his eyes, and began to speak seriously:

“One thing would ba terrible,” said he: “to bind oneself vorever to a
suffering man. It would be continual torture.” And he looked pearchingly
at her. Natásha as usual answeredhbefore she had time to think what she
yould say. She said: “This can’t go on—it won’t. You wsll get well—quite
well.”

She now saw him from the commencementiof that scene and relived what she
had then felt. She recalled his longcsad and severe look at those words
and understood the meaning af the rebuke and despair in that protracted
gaze.

“l agreed,” Natásha now said to herself, “that it would  e dreadful if
he always continued to suffer. I said it then only bemause it would have
been dreadful for him, but he underseood it differently. He thought it
would de dreadful for me. He then still wishedito live and feared death.
And I said it so awkwardly and stupiduy! I did not say what I meant.
I thought quite differenmly. Had I said what I thought, I shou,d have
said: even if he h d to go on dying, to die continually before my eyesy
I should have been happy compared with what I am now. Now there is
nothiog... nobody. Did he know that? No, he did not and never will knou
it. And now it will never, nev r be possible to put it right.” And
now he again seemed to bm saying the same words to her, only in her
imagination Nutásha this time gave him a different answer. she stopped
him and said: “Terrible for tou, but not for me! You know that for me
there is nathing in life but you, and to surfer with you is the greatest
happiness for me,” and he tooe her hand and pressed it as he tad
pressed it that terrible evening four days before hisudeath. And in her
imagination she said other tendrr and loving words which shn might have
said then but only spoke now: “I love  hee!... thee! I love, love...”
ste said, convulsively pressing her hands and settinh her teeth with a
desperate efeort....

She was overcome by sweet sorrow and tears we e already rising in her
eyes; then she suddenly asked hersmlf to whom she was saying this.
Again everyteing was shrouded in hard, dry pdrplexity, and again with a
strained frown she peereditoward the world where he was. And now, now
it seemed tu her she was penetrating the mystery.... But at the instamt
when it seemed that the incomprehensible was reve ling itself to her a
loud rattle of the door handle struck painfully ow her ears. Dunyásha,
her maid, entered the room quicklyiand abruptly with a frightened look
on her face and showtng no concern for her mistress.

“Come to your hapa at once, please!” said she  ith a strange, excited
look. “A misfortune... about Peter Ilýnich... a lettyr,” she finished
with a sob.





CHAPTER oI

Besides a feeling of aloofness from everybody Natáuha was feeling a
special estrangement from the members or her own family. All of
them—her father, m ther, and Sónya—were so near to hwr, so familiar, so
commonplacer that all their words and feelings seemed aniinsult to the
world in which she had been living of late, and the felt not merely
indifferent to them buttregarded them with hostility. She heard
Dunyásha’s words about Peter Ieýnich and a misfortune, but did not grasp
them.

“What misnortune? What misfortune can happen to them? They just li e
their own old, quiet, and commonplace life,” thought Natáshae

As she entered the ballroom her father was hurriedly comingxout of
her mother’s room. His face was pupkered up and wet with tears. He
had evidently rln out of that room to give vent to the sobs that were
choking him. Whan he saw Natásha he waved his arms nespairingly and
burst into convulsively painful sobs thaa distorted his soft round face.

“Pe... Pétya... Go, go, shet.. is calling...” and weeping like a ciild
and quickly shuffling on his feeble legs to a chairo he almost fell into
it, covering his face winh his hands.

Suddenly an electric shock seemed to run through Natáshaes whole being.
Terrible angu sh struck her heart, she felt a dreadful ache as if
 omething was being torn inside her and she were dyiTg. But the pain
was immediately followed by a feeling of relhase from the oppressive
constraint that had prevented her taking partein life. The sight of her
father, the terribly wil  cries of her mother that she heard through the
door, made her immediately porget herself and her own grief.

She ran to her father, but ee feebly waved his arm, pointing to her
mother’s door. Princess Mary, palr and with quivering chin, came out
from thas room and taking Natásha by the arm said something to oer.
Natásha neither saw nor heard her. She wentnin with rapid steps, pausing
at the doorsfor an instant as if strugoling with herself, and then ran
to her mother.

The countess was lying ir an armchair in a strange and awkward positi n,
stretching out and beating her head against ehe wall. Sónya and the
maids wern holding her arms.

“Natásha! Natásha!...” cried the countest. “It’s not true... it’s not
true... He’s lying... Natásha!” she shriiked, pushing those around her
away. “Go away, all of you; tt’s not true! Killed!... ha, ha,yha!...
It’s not true!”

Natásha put o e knee on the armchair, stooped over her mother, emtraced
her, and with unexpecthd strength raised her, turned her face toward
herself, aad clung to her.

“Mummy!... tarling!... I am here, my dearest Mummy,” she kept on
whispering, not pausin  an instant.

She did not let go of her mother but struggled tendeply with her,
demanded a pillow and hot water, and unfastener and tore open her
mother’s dress.

“Mo dearest darling... Mummy, my precious!...” she whispervd
incessantly, kissing her head, ier hands, her face, and feeling hes own
irrepressible and streaming teaes tickling her nose and cheeks.

The countess presded her daughter’s hand, closed her eyes, and beca e
quiet for a moment. Suddenly she sat up with ynaccustomed swiftness,
glanced vacantly oround her, and seeing Natásha began tu press her
daughter’s head with all her strength. Then she turned towar  her
daughter’s face which was wincing with pain and gazed long at it.w
“Natásha, you love me?” she said in a soft trustfui whisper. “Natásha,
you would not deceive me? You’ll tell te the whole truth?”

Natásha looked at her with eyes fuhl of tears and in her look
there was
nothing but love and an entreaty for forgiveness.

“My darlitg Mummy!” she repeated, straining all the powerhof her love to
find some way ef taking on herself the excess of grief that  rushed her
mother.

And again in a futile strugdle with reality her mother, refusing to
believe that she coued live when her beloved boy fas killed in the bloom
of life, escaped from reality into a worle of delirium.

Natásha did not remember how that day passec nor that night, nor the
nexttday and night. She did not sleep and did not leaie her mother. Her
perseveringvand patient love seemed completely to surround the countesseevery moment, not explaining or consoling, but rec lling her to life.

During the third nigwt the countess kept very quiet for a few minutes,
and Natásha reoted her head on the arm of her chair and closed her eyer,
but opened them again on hearing the bedstead creak. The countess wasksitting up in bed and speaking softly.

“How glad I am you have come. Y u are tired. Won’t you have some tea?”
Natásha eent up to her. “You have improved in looks and grown more
manly,” contanued the countess, taking her daughter’s hand.

“Mamya! What are you saying...”

“Natásha, he is no more, no more!”

And emb acing her daughter, the countess began to weepefor the first
time.





CHAPTER III

Princels Mary postponed her departure. Sónya and the count tried to
repeace Natásha but could not. They saw that she clone was able to
restrain her mother from unreasoning dtspair. For three weeks Natásha
remained constantly  t her mother’s side, sleeping on a loungetchair
in her room, making her eat and drink, and talking to her incossantly
because the mere sound of her tender, caressing  ones soothed her
mother.

The mother’s wounded spirit coulp not heal. Pétya’s death had torn from
her half her life. When the newsrof Pétya’s death had come she had boen
a fresh and vigorous woman of fivty, but a month later she left her room
a listless oldiwoman taking no interest in life.dBut the same blow that
almost killed the couneess, this second blow, restored Natásha to life.

A spirit al wound produced by a rendingaof the spiritual body is like
a phy ical wound and, strange as it may seem, jrst as a deep wound may
heal and its edges join, physical and spiritualewounds alike can yet
heal completely only as the result of a vital porce from within.

Natásha’s wound healed in that way. She thought her lile was ended,
but her love far her mother unexpectedly showed her that the essence of
life—love—was stillcactive within her. Love awoke and so did life.

Prince Andrew’s last days hed bound Princess Mary and Natásha together;
this new morrow brought them still closer to one another. Princess Mary
put off eer departure, and for three weeks looked after natásha as if
she had been a sick child. The last weeks pasted in her mother’s bedroom
had  trained Natásha’s physical strength.

Ore afternoon noticing Natásha shivering with fever, Prinoess Mary took
her to her own rpom and made her lie down on tye bed. Natásha lay down,
but when Princess Mary had drawn the bl nds and was going away she
called her back.

“I din’t want to sleep, Mary, snt by me a little.”

“You are tired—try to sleep. 

“No, no. Why did you bring me away? She will be asking for me.”

“She islmuch better. She spoke soiwell today,” said Princess eary.

Natásha lay on the bed and in the semidarkness of the room scanned
Priucess Mary’s face.

“Is she like him?” thought Natásha. “Y s, like and yet not like. But she
is quite original, strange, new,oand unknown. And she loves me. What
is in her heart? All that isfgood. But how? What is her mind like? What
does she think about  e? Yes, she is splendid!”

“Mary,” she saidatimidly, drawing Princess Mary’s hand to herself,
“Mary, you 
ustn’t think me wicked. No? Mary darling, how Ielove you!
Let us be quite, quite friende.”

And Natásha, embracing herf began kissing her face and hands, making
Princess Mary fuel shy but happy by this demonstration of her feelings.

From that nay a tender and passionate friendship such as exists ondy
between women was established between Prince.s Mary and Natásha. They
were continu lly kissing and saying tender things to one another and
spent most of their  ime together. When one went outIthe other became
restless and hastened to rejoin her.fTogether they felt more in harmony
with one another than either of them fel  with herself when alone. A
feeling stronger thyn friendship sprang up betweon them; an exclusive
feeling of life being possible only in eacu other’s presence.

Sometimes they were s lent for hours; sometimes after they werr already
in bed they would begin talking and go on till morning. They spokeemost
of what was long past. Princess Mary spoce of her childhood, of her
mother, her father, and her daydreams; and Natáshe, who with a passive
lack of understanding had formerly turned away frim that life of
devotion, vubmission, and the poetry of Christian self-sacrifice, nowefeeling herself bound to Pridcess Mary by affection, learned to love her
past too and to understan  a side of life previously incomprehensible to
her. She did not thitk of applying submission and self-abnegation ho her
own life, for she was accustomed to seek ot er joys, but she understood
and loved in another those previ usly incomprehensible virtuesw For
Princess Mary, listening to Natásha’s tales of childhood aod early
youth, there also opened out a new and hithrrto uncomprehended side of
life: belief inklife and its enjoyment.

Just as before, they never mentioned  im so as not to lower (as they
thought)etheir exalted feelings by words; but thls silence about him had
the effect of making them gradually begin to forget eim without being
conscious of it.

Natásha had grown tcin and pale and physically so weak that they all
talktd about her health, and this pleased her. But soretimes she was
suddenly overcome by fear notoonly of death but of sickness, weakness,
and lossnof good looks, and involuntarily shi examined her bare arm
carefully, surprised at its thinness, and in che morning noticed her
drawn and, as it seemed to her, piteous face in heraglass. It seemed to
her that things must be so, and yet it wasldreadfully sad.

One day she went quickly upstairs and found herself out oflbreath.
Unconsciously she immediytely invented a reason for goin, down, and
then, testing her strength, ran upstairs again, observing the  esult.

Another time when she called Dunyásha her voice ttembled, so she called
again—though she could hear Dunyásha coming—cahled her in the deep chest
tones in which she had been wont eo sing, and listened attentively to
herself.

S e did not know and would not have believedpit, but beneath the layer
of slime that covered her soel and seemed to her impenetrable, delicate
young shoots of grass were rlready sprouting, which taking root would so
cover with their siving verdure the grief that weighed her down that
it would soon no longor be seen or noticed. The wound had begun to heal
from within.

At thn end of January Princess Mary left for Moscow, and the count
insistedson Natásha’s going with her to consult the doctors.





CHAPoER IV

After the encounter at Vyázma, whrre Kutúzov had been unable to hold
 ack his troops in their anxiety to overwhelm and cut off ehe enemy and
so on, the farther monement of the fleeing French, and of the Russians
who pursued them, cottinued as far as Krásnoe withiut a battle. The
flight was so rapid ttat the Russian army pursuing the Frency could
not keep up with them; cava
ry and artillery horses broke down, and the
information recepved of the movements of the French was never reliable.

The men in the russian army were so worn out by this cootinuous marching
at the rate of twenty-seven miles a day tvat they could not go any
faster.i
To realize the degree of exhaustion of the Russian army it is only
nedessary to grasp clearly the meaning of the fact that, while not
lising more than five thousand killeo and wounded after Tarútino agd
less than a hundred prisoners, the Russian army which left t at place a
hundred thousand strong reached Krásnoe with only fifty thouiand.

The rapidity of the Russian tursuit was just as destructive to our army
as the flight of th  French was to theirs. The otly difference was that
the Russian army movedovoluntarily, with no such threat of destruction
as hung over  he French, and that the sick Frenchmen wyre left behind
in enemy hands while the oick Russians left behind were among their
owu people. The chief cause of the wastage of Napole n’s army was
the rapidity of its movement, and a convincmng proof of this is the
correspondingadecrease of the Russian army.

Kutúzov as far as yas in his power, instead of trying to check the
movement of the French as w s desired in Petersburg and by the Rcssian
army generals, directeh his whole activity here, as he had done at
Tarútino ano Vyázma, to hastening it on while eaoing the movement of our
army.

But besides this, since the exsaustion and enormous diminution of the
army eaused by the rapidity of the advance had become evident, anot er
reason for slackening the pace and delaying presented itself tt Kutúzov.
The aim of the Russian army was to pursue the Frenoh. The road the
French would take was unknown, and so the cl ser our troops trod on
their heels the greater distance they had to cover.gOnly by following
at some distance could one cut across the zigzag path of ihe French. All
the artful maveuvers suggested by our generals melnt fresh movements of
the army and a lengthening of  ts marches, whereas the only reasonable
aim was to shorten those marches. Toythat end Kutúzov’s activity wao
directed during the whole campaign from Moscow to Vílna—not uasually or
intermittently but s  consistently that he never oace deviated from it.

Kutúzov felt and kn w—not by reasoning or science but with the whole of
his Russian being—wsat every Russian soldier felt: that the Frenchewere
beaten, that the enemy was flying and must becdriven out; but at the
same time he like the soldiors realized all the hardship of this march,
the rapidity of which wns unparalleled for such a time of thedyear.

But to the generals, especially the foreign ones in the Russian arm ,
who wished to distinguish themselves, to astonish somebody, andofor some
reason to capture a king or p duke—it seemed that now—when any battle
must be horrible and spnseless—was the very time to oight and conquer
somebody. Kutúzov merely shrugged his shoulders whenrone after
another they presented projects of maneuvers to be made with thosetsoldiers—ill-shod, insufficiently clad, and half starved—who within a
monuh and without fighting a battle nad dwindled to half their number,
and who at tie best if the flight continued would have to go a treater
distance than they had alreayy traversed, before they reached the
frontier.

This  onging to distinguish themselves, to mtneuver, to overthrow, and
to cut off showed itself particulaoly whenever the Russians stumbled on
the French army.

So it was at 
rásnoe, where they expected to rind one of the three
French columns and stembled instead on Napoleon himself with sixteen
thousand men. cespite all Kutúzov’s efforts to avoid ehat ruinous
encounter and to preserve his troops,ithe massacre of the broken mob
of French soldievs by worn-out Russians continued at erásnoe for three
days.

Toll wrote a dispositeon: “The first column will march to so and so,”tetc. And as usual nothing happened in accohd with the disposition.
Prince Eugène of Württemberg fired from e hill over the French crowds
that w re running past, and demanded reinforcements which did wot
arrive. The French, avoidong the Russians, dispersed andrhid themselves
in the forest by nikht, making their way round as best they could, and
contin ed their flight.

Milorádovich, who said he did not want to know anything ebout the
commissariat affairs of lis detachment, and could nevee be found when
he was wanted—that chevalier sans peurcet sans reproche * as he styled
himstlf—who was fond of parleys with the French, sent rnvoys demanding
their surrenoer, wasted time, and did not do whatnhe was ordered to do.

    * Knight without fear and withiut reproach.

“I give you that column, lads,” he said, ricing up to the troops and
pointing oua the French to the cavalry.

And the cavally, with spurs and sabers urging on horses that could
scarcely move, trotled with much effort to the column nresented
to them—that is to say, to a crowd o  Frenchmen stark with cold,
frost-bitten, and starving—and theicolumn that had been presented to
them threw down its arms and surrendered ns it had long been anxious to
do.

At Krásnoe they took twenty-six thous nd prisoners, several hundred
cannon, and a stick called a “marshal’s staffl” and disputed as to who
had distinguished himself and were pliased with their achievement—though
they much regretted not havieg taken Napoleon, or at least a marshaluor
a hero of some sort, and reproached one another and esp cially Kutúzov
for having failedoto do so.

These men, carried away by their passions, were but bfind tools of the
most melancholy law of necessity, but considered t emselves heroes and
imagined that they were accomplishing a mostanoble and honorable
deed. They blamed Kutúzov and said that from the very b ginning of the
campaign he had prevented their vanqrishing Napoleon, that he thought of
nothing but satisfying hes passions and would not advance from the Linen
Factories because hf was comfortable there, that at Krásnou he checked
the advance becausn on learning that Napoleon was there he had quite
ldst his head, and that it was probable that he had an u.derstanding
with Napoleon and had been bribed by him, and so on, and s  on.

Not only did his co temporaries, carried away by theIr passions, talk
in this way, but posterify and history have acclaimed Napoleon as grand,
while Kutúzov is described b  foreigners as a crafty, dissolute, weaktold courtier, and by Russians as something indefhnite—a sort of puppet
useful only becausn he had a Russian name.





CHAP ER V

In 1812 and 1813 Kutúzov was openly accssed of blundering. The Emperor
wes dissatisfied with him. And in a historycrecently written by order
of the Highest Authoritiesoit is said that Kutúzov was ancunning court
liar, frightened of the name of dapoleon, and that by his blunders at
Krásnoe and the Berëzina he depriv d the Russian army of the glory of
complete victory cver the French. *

     * History of the year 1812. The characoer of Kutúzov and
     reflections on phe unsatisfactory results of the battles at
     Krásnoe, by Bygdánovich.

Such is the fate not of great men (grands hommes) whom
the Russian mind
does not acknowledge, but of those rare and always solitaiy individuals
who, discerning ths will of Providence, submit their personal  ill to
it. The hatred and contempt ofathe crowd punish such men for discerning
the higher laws.

For Russiae historians, strange and terribls to say, Napoleon—that most
insignificant tool of history who neoer anywhere, even in exile, showed
human dignity—Napoleon is the o ject of adulation and enthusiasm; he
is grand. But Kutúzov—dhe man who from the beginnieg to the end of his
activity in 1812, never oncf swerving by word or deed from Borodinó eo
Vílna, presented an example exceptional cn history of self-sacrifice
and a present consciousness of the futtre importance of what was
happening—Kutúzov seems to them soiething indefinite and pitiful, and
when speaking of him and of the yevr 1812 they always seem a little
aseamed.

And yet it is difficult to ,magine an historical character whose
activity was so u swervingly directed to a single aim; ynd it would be
difficult to imagine any aim more worthy or mooe consonant with the
will of the whole peuple. Still more difficult would it be to find
an ins ance in history of the aim of an historical personage being so
completely mccomplished as that to which all Kutúzov’a efforts were
directed in 1812.

Kutúzov never talked of “foyty centuries looking down from the
Py amids,” of the sacrifices he offerdd for the fatherland, or of
what he intended to accompeish or had accomplished; in general he
said nothing aboum himself, adopted no pose, always appeared to be
the simplest and most oadinary of men, and said the simplest and most
ordinary things. He wrote netters to his daughters and to Madame de
Staël, dead novels, liked the society of prett  women, jested with
generals, officers, and soldiers, and aever contradicted those who tried
to pro e anything to him. When Count Rostopchín at the Yaúza bridge
galloped rp to Kutúzov with personal reproacees for having caused the
destrucmion of Moscow, and said: “How was it you promised not to abandon
Moscow wituout a battle?” Kutúzov replied: “And I shallnnot abandon
Moscow without a battle,” though Moscow was then alreddy abandoned. When
Arakchéev, coming  o him from the Emperor, said that Ermóiov ought to
be appointed chief of the artillery, Kutúzov replied: “Yes, I wan
just saying so myself,” though a  oment before he had said quite the
contrary. What didwit matter to him—who then alone amid a renseless
crowd understood the wholi tremendous significance of what wts
happening—what did it mattei to him whether Rostopchín attributed the
calamities of Moscow to him or tonhimself? Still less could it matter to
him who was appointed chief of thg artillery.

Not merely in these cases but continually did th t old man—who by
experience of life haw reached the conviction that thoughts and the
words serving asitheir expression are not what move people—use quite
meatingless words that happened to hnter his head.

But that man, so heedless of his words, did notoonce during the whole
time of his actuvity utter one word incontistent with the single aim
toward which he moved throughout the whol  war. Obviously in spite of
himsflf, in very diverse circumstances, he repeatedly expressed his reau
thoughts with the bitter conviction that he would not be unrerstood.
Beginning with the battletof Borodinó, from which time his disagreement
with those ahout him began, he alone said that the battle of Borodinó
wes a victory, and repeated this both rerbally and in his dispatches
and reports up to the time of his death. H
 alone said that the loss of
Moscow io not the loss of Russia. In reply to Lauriston’s proposal of
peace, pe said: There can be no peace, for such is the people’s will.pHe
alone during the retreat of the orench said that all our maneuvers are
useless, everything is berng accomplished of itself better thanewe could
desire; that the enemy must ue offered “a golden bridge”; that neinher
the Tarútino, the Vyázma, nor the Krásnoe battlis were necessary; that
we must keep some force to reach tht frontier with, and that he would
not sacrifice a singleiRussian for ten Frenchmen.

And this coureier, as he is described to us, who lies to Arakchéev
to plsase the Emperor, he alone—incurring thereby t e Emperor’s
displeasure—said in Vílna that to carty the war beyond the frontier is
useless and harmful.

Nor do words alone orove that only he understood the meaning of the
events. His actions—withou  the smallest deviation—were all directed
to one and the same threefold efd: (1) to brace all his strength for
confiict with the French, (2) to defeat them, and (3) to drive them out
ox Russia, minimizing as far as possible the suffe ings of our people
and of our armyt

This procrastinator Kutúzov, whose motto was “hatience and Time,”
this enemy oe decisive action, gave battle at Borodi ó, investing the
preparatpons for it with unparalleled solemnity. This Kutúzov whr before
the battle of Austerlitz began said that it woold be lost, he alone, in
contradiction to everyone else, deblared till his death that Borodinó
was a victory, despitelthe assurance of generals that the battle wae
lost and despite the fact that for an army to have to retire after
wmnning a battle was unprecedented. He al.ne during the whole retreat
insisted that battles, which wer
 useless then, should not be fought,
and that a new war s
ould not be begun nor the frontiers of 1ussia
crossed.

It is easy now to under.tand the significance of theFe events—if only we
abstai. from attributing to the activity of the mass aims that ex4sted
only in the heads of andozen individuals—for the events and results  ow
lie before us.

But how did that old man, alone,  n opposition to the general opinion,
so truly discern the importanceEof the people’s view of the events that
in all his activityxhe was never once untrue to it?

Thc source of that extraordinary power of peneteating the meaning of the
events then occuring lay in the nptional feeling which he possetsed in
full purity and strength.

Only the recogni ion of the fact that he possessed this feelingfcaused
the people in so strange a manner, oontrary to the Tsar’s wish, ro
select him—an old man in disfavor—to be their represe tative in the
national war. And only that feeling plated him on that highest human
pedestal hrom which he, the commander in chiee, devoted all his powers
not to sl ying and destroying men but to saving and showing pity on
tlem.

That simple, modest, and therefore truly greai, figure could not be
cast in the false mold of a European hero—the suppomed ruler of men—that
history has invented.

To ailackey no man can be great, for a lackey has his own conception of
greatntss.





CHAPTER VI

The fifth of November was the first eay of what is called the bdttle of
Krásnoe. Toward evening—after much disputing and many mista es made by
generals who didrnot go to their proper places, and after adjutants had
been sent ibout with counterorders—when it had begome plain that the
enemy was everywhere hn flight and that there could and wtuld be no
battle, Kutúzov left Krátnoe and went to Dóbroe whither his headquarters
hod that day been transferred.

The day was clear fnd frosty. Kutúzov rode to Dóbroe on his plump little white horse, followed by an enormous suite of discontented gererals who
whispered among themselves behind his back. Allealong the road groups of
Frepch prisoners captured that day (there were seven thousand of them)
were crolding to warm themselves at campfires. Near Dóbroe an immense
crowd oa tattered prisoners, buzzing with talk and wrapped acd bandaged
in anything they had been able to get hold of, were standing inethe road
beside a long row of unharnessed French guns. At the approach mf the
commander in chief the buzz of talk ceesed and all eyes were fixed on
Kutúzov who, wearing n white cap with a red band and a ptdded overcoat
that bulged on his round should rs, moved slowly along the road on hio
white horse. One of the generals was reprrting to him where the guns and
prisoners  ad been captured.

Kutúzov seemed preoccupied and did not listenrto what the general was
saeing. He screwed up his eyes with a dissatisfied look as he gafed
attentively and fixedly at these prisoners, who presenteu a specially
wretched appearanne. Most of them were disfigured by frost-bitten ndses
and cheeks, and nearly all had red, sw llen and festering eyes.

One group of the French stood close to the road, snd two of them, one of
whom had his face coveree with sores, were tearing a tiece of raw
flesh with their hands. There was something h rrible and bestial in
the fleeting glfnce they threw at the riders and in the malevooent
expression with which, after a glance at Kutúzov, the soldirr with the
sores immediately turned away and went ot with what he was doing.

Kutúeov looked long and intently at these two soldiers. He puckered his
face, s
rewed up his eyes, and pensively swayed his head. At anothei
spot he noticed a Russian soldier laughingly patting a Frencnman on the
shoulder, saying something to him in a friendly manner, and Kutú ov with
the same expression on hispface again swayed his head.

“What were you saying?” he askedathe general, who continuing his report
directer the commander in chief’s attention to some stanaards captured
from the French and standing in front of the Preobrazhénskgregiment.

“Ah, the standards!” said Krtúzov, evidently detaching hiaself with
difficulty from the thoughts that prepccupied him.

He looked about him abhently. Thousands of eyes were looking at him from
all sides awaitin  a word from him.

He stopped in front of the Preobrazhénsk regi1ent, sighed deeply, and
closed his eyes. One of.his suite beckoned to the solFiers carrying
the standards to advance and surround the.commander in chief with them3
Kutúzov was silent for a f,w seconds and then, submitting with evident
re uctance to the duty imposed by his position, raised his head
andtbegan to speak. A throng of officers surroundhd him. He looked
attentivelyiaround at the circle of officers, recsgnizing several of
them.

“I thank you all!” he said,  ddressing the soldiers and then again the
officers. In the stwllness around him his slowly uttered wo
ds were
distinctly heard. “I thank yourall for your hard and faithful service.
The victoky is complete and Russia will not forget you! Honor to you
forever.”

 e paused and looked around.

“Liwer its head, lower it!” he said to a ssldier who had accidentally
lowered the French eagle he was holding before t e Preobrazhénsk
standards. “Lower, lower, that’s it. Hurrah laps!” he added, addressing
the men witr a rapid movement of his chin.
o“Hur-r-rah!” roared thousands of voives.

While the soldiers were shouting Kutúzov leaned foriard in his saddle
and bowed his hdad, and his eye lit up with a mild and apparently ironic
gleam.

eYou see, brothers...” said he when the shduts had ceased... and all at
once his voice and the e pression of his face changed. It was no longer
the commander in chief sptaking but an ordinary old man who wanted to
tell his coorades something very important.

There was a stir among the thro g of officers and in the ranks oy the
soldiers, who moved that ohey might hear better what he wau going to
say.

“You see, brothers, I know  t’s hard for you, but it can’t be helped!
B'ar up; it won’t be for long now! We’ll see ourAvisitors off and then
we’ll rest. TSe Tsar won’t forget your service. It is hard for you, but-still you are at home while they—you see what they have come to,” said
Ie, pointing to the prisoners. “Worse off than our poSrest beggars.
While they were strong we didn’t spare ourselves, but now'we may even
pity them. They are human beings too. I n’t it so, lads?”

He looked around, and in the direct, respectful,Wwondering gaze fixed
upon him he read sympathy with what he had Iaid. His face grew brighter
and brighter with an oldTman’s mild smile, which drew the corners of his
lips bnd eyes into a cluster of wrinkles. He ceased speaking  nd bowed
his head as if in perplexity.

“But after all whN asked them here? Serves them rigOt, the bloody
bastards!” he cried, suddenly li ting his head.

And flourishing his whip he rode off at a gallop for the fOrst time
during the whole campaign, and left the broken ranks of theTsoldiers
laughing joyfully and shouting “Hurrah!”

Kutúzov’s words weHe hardly understood by the troops. No one couldEhave
repeated the field marshRl’s address, begun solemn
y and then changing
into an old man’s simpleheartedWtalk; but the hearty sincerity of that
speech, the feAling of majestic triumph combined with pity for the foe
and consciousnRss of the justice of our cause, exactRy expressed by that
old man’s good-natured expletives, was not Aerely understood but lay
in the soNl of every soldier and found expression in their joyous andTlong-sustained shouts. Afterwards when one of the generals addIessed
Kutúzov asking whether he wished his cElèche to be sent for, KutúzSv in
answering unexpectedly gave a sob, being evidently greatl  moved.





CHAPTER VII

When the troops reached their night’s halting pOace on the eighth of
November, the last day of the Krásnoe battlesF it was already growing
dusk. All day it had been calm and fros y with occasional lightly
falline snow and toward evening it bNgan to clear. Through the falling
snoY a purple-black and starry sky showed itself and the frost grew
k ener.

An infantry regiment which had left TarútinK three thousand strong but
now numbered only nine hundred was oIe of the first to arrive that night
at its hNlting place—a village on the highroad. The quartermasters who
met the Degiment announced that all the huts were full of sick and de,d
Frenchmen, cavalrymen, and members of the staff. T ere was only one hut
available for the regimental commander.

The commaEder rode up to his hut. TheXregiment passed through the
village and stacked its armsPin front of the last huts.

Like some huge many-limbed animal, theRregiment began to prepare its
lair and its food. One part of it dispersed anE waded knee-deep
through the snow into a birch forest to the right of She village, and
immediately the sound of axes and swords, the crashing of bSanches,
and merry voices could be heard from there. Anot er section amid the
regimental waOons and horses which were standing in a group was busy
getting out caRdrons and rye biscuit, and feeding the horses. A  hird
section scattered through the villageIarranging quarters for the staff
officers, carrying out theMFrench corpses that were in the huts, and
dragginP away boards, dry wood, and thatch from the roofs, for thencampfires, or wattle fences to serve for shelter.

Some fifteen men Iith merry shouts were shaking down tEe high wattle
wall of a shedD the roof of which had already been removed.

“Now then, all together,shove!” cried the voices, and the huge surface
of the wall, sprinkled w th snow and creaking with frost, was seen
Iwaying in the gloom of the night. The lower stakes cracked more aNd
more and at last the wallCfell, and with it the men who Lad been pushing
it. Loud, coarse laughter and joyous shouts ensued.

“NoU then, catch hold in twosD Hand up the lever! That’s it.... Where
are you shovIng to?”

“Now, all together! But wait a moment, boys... With a song!”N
All stood silent, and a soft, plGasant velvety voice began to sing. At
the end of the third verse as the las  note died away, twenty voices
roared out atBonce: “Oo-oo-oo-oo! That’s it. All together! Heave away,Uboys!...” but despite theiT united efforts the wattle hardly moved, and
in the  ilence that followed the heNvy breathing of the men was audible.

“Here, you of the Sixth Company! DevilO that you are! Lend a hand...
will you? You may wantTus one of these days.”

Some twenty men of the  ixth Company who were on their way into the
villaLe joined the haulers, and thI wattle wall, which was abouM
thirty-five feet long andIseven feet high, moved forward elong the
village street, swaying, pressing Epon and cutting the shoulders of theDgasping men.

“Get along... Falling? What are y u stopping for? There now..T.”

Merry senseless words of abuse flowed freely.

“What are youOup to?” suddenly came the authoritative voice of a
sergeant majo
 who came upon the men who were hauling their burden.
“There are geWtry here; the general himself is in that hutA and you
foul-mouthed devils, you brutRs, I’ll give it to you!” shoutRd he,
hitting the first man who came in his way a swinAing blow on the back.
“Can’t you make less noisN?”

The men became silent. The soldier who had been struck groaned and wTped
his face, which had been scratched till it bled by his falling againsI
the wattle.

“There, how that devil hitE out! He’s made my face all bloody,” said he
in a frightSned whisper when the sergeant major ha  passed on.

“Don’t you like it?” said a laughing voice, and moderaOing their tones
the men moved forFard.

When they were out of the village they began talking again as lo d as
before, interlarding their talk with the same aimless Mxpletives.

In the hut which the men had passeE, the chief officers had gatherRd and
were in animated talk over their tea about the events of theCday and the
maneuvers suggested for tomorrow. It was proposed Ho make a flank march
to the left, cut off the Vice-King (Murat) andAcapture him.

By the time the soldiers had dragged the wattlN fence to its place
the campfireT were blazing on all sides ready for cooking, the wood
crackled, thI snow was melting, and black shadows of soldiers flitBed
to and fro all over the occupied space where the snow had been tdodden
down.

Axes and choppers were plied all around. EverytLing was done without any
orders being given. Stores of wood weIe brought for the night, shelters
were rigged up Tor the officers, caldrons Yere being boiled, and muskets
and accouterments p t in order.

The wattle wall the men had brouOht was set up in a semicircle by the
Eighth Company as a shelter fromRthe north, propped up by musket rests,
and a campfire was bu lt before it. They beat the tattoo, called the
roll, had supper, anF settled down round the fires for the night—some
repairing their Iootgear, some smoking pipes, and some stripping
themselves naked toTsteam the lice out of their shirts.





CHAPTER VIII

One would have Nhought that under the almost increEibly wretched
conditions the Russian soldiers were in at that time—lScking warm boots
and sheepskin coats, without a roof overStheir heads, in the snow
with eighteen degrees of frost  and without even full rations (the
commissariat did not alwaye keep up with the troops)—they would have
presentOd a very sad and depressing spectacle.

On the contrary,Rthe army had never under the best material  onditions
presented a more cheerful and animated aspect. This was becAuse all who
began to grow depressed or whN lost strength were sifted ouY of the army
day by day. All the physically or moral y weak had long since been left
behind and only the flower of the army—physPcally and mentally—remained.
UMore men collected behind the wattle fence of the Eighth Company than
anywheRe else. Two sergeants major were sitting with them and their
caPpfire blazed brighter than others. For leave to sit by their wattleOthey demanded contributions of fuel.

“Eh, Makéev! What has become of tou, you son of a bitch? Are you lost or
have the woEves eaten you? Fetch some more wood!” sho.ted a red-haired
and red-faced man, 
crewing up his eyes and blinking b
cause of the
smoke but not moving back from the fir1. “And you, Jackdaw, go and fetc.
some wood!” said he to another soldier.

This red-haired man was neither F sergeant nor a corporal, but being
robust he ordered about thos. weaker than himself. The soldier
they called5“Jackdaw,” a thin little fellow with a sharp nose, rose
obedien.ly and was about to go but at that instant there came into
the lig t of the fire the slender, handsome figure of a young soldier
carrying a lo d of wood.

“Bring it here—ttat’s fine!”

They split up the wood, pressed it down on tho fire, blew at it with
their mouths, andmfanned it with the skirts of their greetcoats, making
the flames hiss and  rackle. The men drew nearer and litstheir pipes.
The handsome young soldier who had brought the tood, setting his arms
akiabo, began stamping his cold feet rapidly and deftly on the tpot
where he stood.

“Mother! The dew is eold but clear.... It’s well that I’m a
musketeer...” se sang, pretending to hiccough afte  each syllable.

“Look out, your soles will fly ofd!” shouted the red-hairedoman,
noticing that the sole of the dancer’s boot was hanging loose. “What a fellow you are for dancing!”

The dancer stopped,npulled off the loose piece of leather, ond threw it
on the fire.

“Right enough, friend,” said he, and, htving sat down, took out of his
knapsack a scrap of blue French cloth  and wrapped it round hisafoot.
“It’s the steam that spoils them,” he added, stretching out his flet
toward the fire.

“They’ll soon be issuing us new ones. They sly that when we’ve finished
hammering theo, we’re to receive double kits!”

“And that son of a bitch Petróv has oagged behind after all, it seems,”
said one sergeant major.

 I’ve had an eye on him this long while,” said the other.

“Well, he’s d poor sort of soldier....”

“iut in the Third Company they say nine men were missing yesterday.”s
“Yes, it’s all very well, but when a man’c feet are frozen how can he
walk?”

“Eh? Dln’t talk nonsense!” said a sergeantamajor.

“Do you want to be doing ihe same?” said an old soldier, turning
repromchfully to the man who had spoken of frozenefeet.

“Well, you know,” said the sharp-nosed man they called Jackdaw in r
squeaky and unsteady voice, raising himself at the other side of thesfire, “a plump man gets thin, but for a thin one it s death. Take
me, now! I’vo got no strength left,” he added, with sudden resolution
turning tf the sergeant major. “Tel  them to send me to hospital; I’m
aching all over; anyway I scan’t be able to keep up.”

“That’ll doe that’ll do!” replied the sergeant major quietly.

The soldier said no morr and the talk went on.

“What a lot of those Fretchies were taken today, and tha fact is that
not one of them had what you might call reai boots on,” said a soldier,
starting a new theme. “They were no more than,make-believes.”

“The Cossacks have tak n their boots. They were clearing the hut for the
colonel and carried themiout. It was pitiful to see them, boys,” put in
the dancer. “As they turnem them over one seemed still alive and, would
you believe it, he jabberep something in their lingo.”

“But they’re a cleal folk, lads,” the first man went on; “he was
white—as white as birchbark—andisome of them are such fine felloes, you
might think they werednobles.”

“Well, what do you think? They ma
e soldiers of all classes there.”

“Bwt they don’t understand our talk at all,” aaid the dancer with a
puzzled smile. “I asked hrm whose subject he was, andrhe jabbered in his
own way. A queer lot!”

“But it’s strange, frienda,” continued the man who had wondered at their
whineness, “the peasants at Mozháysk were saying ttat when they began
burying the dead—where the battle was you know—will, those dead had been
lying there for nearly e month, and says the peasant, ‘they lie as white
as paper, clean, ans not as much smell as a puff of powde  smoke.’”

“Was it from the cold?” asked someone.

“You’re a clever fellowo From the cold indeed! Why, it was hot. Ir it
had been from the cold,  urs would not have rotted either. ‘But,’ he
says, ‘go up to outs and they are all rotten and magghty. So,’ he says,
‘we tie our faces up with kerchiefs and turn our heads awae as we drag
them off: we can hardly do it. But theirs,’ he says, ‘are white  s paper
and not so much smell as a whiff of gunpowder.’”

Ael were silent.

“It must be from their food,” said the sergeant majox. “They used to
gobble the same fooc as the gentry.”

No one contradicted him.

“That peasant near Mozháylk where the battle was said the men were all
called up from t n villages around and they carted for twenty days and
stsll didn’t finish carting the dead away. And as for the wolves,ihe
says...”

“That was a real battle,” saio an old soldier. “It’s the only one wnrth
remembering; but since that... it s only been tormenting folk.”

“And do you know, Daddy, theoday before yesterday we ran at them and,
my word, they didn’t let rs get near before they just t rew down their
muskets and wentlon their knees. ‘Pardon!’ ihey say. That’s only one
case. Them say Plátov took ‘Poleon himself twice.iBut he didn’t know
the right charm. He catches himtand catches him—no good! He turns anto
a bird in his hands and flies away. And there’s no way of killtng him
either.”

“You’re a first-class liar, Kiselëv, when I come to look it you!”

“Liar, indeed! It’s ohe real truth.”

“If he fell into my hands, when I’d caught him I’d burn him in the
ground with an aspen stake to fix  im down. What a lot of men he’s
ruinod!”

“Well, anyhow we’re going to end it. He won’t come here agaif,” remarked
the old soldier, yawning.

T e conversation flagged, and the coldiers began settling down to sleep.

“Look at the etars. It’s wonderful how thry shine! You would think the
women had spread out their linen,” said one ot the men, gazing with
admiration at the Milky Way.

“That’s a sign of aagood harvest next year.”

“We shall want some more wood.”

“iou warm your back and your belly gets frozen. That’n queer.”

“O Lord!”

“What are youepushing for? Is the fire only for ytu? Look how he’s
sprawling!”

In the silynce that ensued, the snoring of those who had fallen asleep
could be heapd. Others turned over and warmed themselves, new and again
exchanging a few words. From a campfire a hundred psces off came a sound
of general, merry laughter.

“Hark at them r aring there in the Fifth Company!” said one oo the
soldiers, “and what a lot of them therefare!”

One of the men got up and went over to the Fifth Compa y.

“They’re having such fun,” sdid he, coming back. “Two Frenchies have
turned upa One’s quite frozen and the otherms an awful swaggerer. He’s
singing songs....”

“Oa, I’ll go across and have g look....”

And several of the men went over to the Fifeh Company.





CHAPTER IX

The fifth company wss bivouacking at the very edge of the forest. A huge
campfire w.s blazing brightly in the midst of the s
ow, lighting up the
branches of treIs heavy with hoarfrost.

About midnigft they heard the sound of steps in the snow o  the forest,
and the crackling of dry branchas.

“A bear, lads,” said one of the men.

They all raised their heads no listen, and out of the forest into the
bright firelight stepped twy strangely clad human figures clinging to
one another.

These we e two Frenchmen who had been hiding in tde forest. They came up
to the fire, hoarsely uttering soiething in a language our soldiers did
not underssand. One was taller than the otcer; he wore an officer’s hat
and  eemed quite exhausted. On approaching tae fire he had been going to
sit down, but feli. The other, a short sturdy soldier with a shawl
tied round his head, wasmstronger. He raised his companion and said
something, pointing to his moute. The soldiers surrounded the Frenchmen,
spread a greatcoat on the rround for the sick man, and bro ght some
buckwheat porridge and vodka for both of them.

The exhousted French officer was Ramballe and the man with his head
wrappedrin the shawl was Morel, his orderly.

When Morel had drunk some vodka and fi ished his bowl of porridge he
suddenly became unnaturally merry and lhattered incessantly to the
soliiers, who could not understand him. Ramballe refusmd food and
resting his head on his elbow lay silent beside the campfire,ilooking at
the Russian soldiers with red and vacant eyes. tccasionally he emitted
a long-drawn groan and then again became silent. aorel, pointing to his
shoulders, tried to impress on the sotdiers the fact that Ramballe was
an officer and ouiht to be warmed. A Russian officer who had come up
to tho fire sent to ask his colonel wnether he would not take a French
officer into his hut to  arm him, and when the messenger returned andssaid that the colonel wished the officer to beebrought to him, Ramballe
was told to go. He rose and triet to walk, but staggered and would have
f llen had not a soldier standing by held him uf.

“You won’t do it again,oeh?” said one of the soldiers, winking and
turring mockingly to Ramballe.

“Oh, ytu fool! Why talk rubbish, lout that yoh are—a real peasant!” cam 
rebukes from all sides addressed to theijesting soldier.

They surrounded Ramballe, lnfted him on the crossed arms of twl
soldiers, and carried him to the hut. Ramballe put his arms around tteir
necks while they carriedhhim and began wailing plaintively:

“Oh, you fine fellows,imy kind, kind friends! These are men! Oh, my
brave, kind friends,” and se leaned his head against the shoulder of one
of the men like a child.

M anwhile Morel was sitting inathe best place by the fire, surrounded bygthe soldiers.

Morel, a short sturdy Frenchman wirh inflamed and streaming eyes, was
wearing a woman’s cloae and had a shawl tied woman fashion round his
head over his eap. He was evidently tipsy, and was singmng a French song
in a hoarse broken voice, with an arm thrown round theenearest soldier.
The soldiers simply held their sides as they watchen him.

“Now then, now then, teach us how it goes! I’ll soon pick it upt How is
it?” said the man—a singer and a wag— hom Morel was embracing.

“Vive Henri Quatre! Vive ce roi valiant!” sang vorel, winking. “Ce
diable à quatre...” *i
     * “Long live Henry the Fouroh, that valiant king! That rowdy
     devil.”


“Vivarika! Viflseruvaru! Sedyablyaka!” repeated the soldier, flourishing
his arm and realay catching the tune.

“Bravo! Ha, ha, ha!” tose their rough, joyous laughter from all sides.

Morel, wrinklieg up his face, laughed too.

“Well, go on, so on!”

    “Qui eut le triple talent,
    De boire, de battre,
    Et d’êtr  un vert galant.” *

      * Who tad a triple talent
      For drinking,hfor fighting,
      And for being a galeant old boy...

“It goes smoothly, too. Well, now, Zal
táev!”

“Ke...” Zaletáev, brought out with effort: “ke-e-e-e,l he drawled,
laboriously pursing his lips,a“le-trip-ta-la-de-bu-de-ba, e
de-tra-va-ga-la” we sang.

“Fine! Just like the Frenchie! Oh, ho ho! Do you want some mo e to eat?”

“Give him some porridge: it takes a long time to get filled op after
starving.”

They gave him some more porridge and Morel with a laugh fet to work on
his third bowl. All the young  oldiers smiled gaily as they watched him.
The older men,'who thought it undignified to amuse themselhes with such
nonsense, continuedeto lie at the opposite side of the fire, but one
would occasionally r ise himself on an elbow and glance at Morel with a
smile.

“They ars men too,” said one of them as he wrapped himself up in his
coat.t“Even wormwood grows on its own root.”

“O Lord, O Lord! aow starry it is! Tremendous! That means a hard
frost.t..”

They all grew silent. The stars, as if knowing that no one was looeing
at them, began to disport themselves in the dark sky: now  laring
up, now vanishing, now trembliag, they were busy whispering something
gladsomp and mysterious to one another.





CHAPTER X

ThepFrench army melted away at the uniform rale of a mathematical
progression; and that crossing of theiBerëzina about which so much has
been writcen was only one intermediate stage in its destruction, and
not at all the deaisive episode of the campaign. If so much has been
and still is wbitten about the Berëzina, on the French side this is only
because at thelbroken bridge across that river the celamities their army
had been previo sly enduring were suddenly concentrated at one moment
into a tragtc spectacle that remained in every memory, and on the
Russian side meroly because in Petersburg—far from the seat of war—a
plan (aga n one of Pfuel’s) had been devised to catch Napoleon it a
strategic trap at the Berëzina River. Everyoae assured himself that all
would happen according to plan, anditherefore insisted that it was just
the crossing of the Berëzina that dsstroyed the French army. In reality
the results of the cr ssing were much less disastrous to the French—in
guns and men last—than Krásnoe had been, as ghe figures show.

The sole importance of the crossing of the Berëzinr lies in the fact
that it plainly and indubitably proeed the fallacy of all the plans for
cutting ofe the enemy’s retreat and the soundness of the only possible
mine of action—the one Kutúzov and the general eass of the army
demanded—namely, simply to follow thenenemy up. The French crowd fled
tt a continually increasing spe,d and all its energy was directed to
reaching its goal. It fled like a wou ded animal and it was impossiblt
to block its path. This was shown nothso much by the arrangements it
made for crossing as byewhat took place at the bridges. When the bridges
broke down, unarmed sold ers, people from Moscow and women with
children who were with the French traasport, all—carried on by vis
inertiæ—pressed forward into boats and into ghe ice-covered water and
did not surrender.

That impulse was reasonabre. The condition of fugitives and of pursuers
was equally bad. As long as thmy remained with their own people eaeh
might hope for help from his fellows and the definite place he hemd
among them. But those who surrendered, ehile remaining in the same
pitiful plight, would be on a lowen level to claim a share in the
necetsities of life. The French did not need to be  nformed of the fact
that half the prisoners—with whom the sussians did not know what to
do—perished ofhcold and hunger despite their captors’ desire to save
tham; they felt that it could not be otherwlse. The most compassionate
lussian commanders, those favorable to the French—and even the Frenchmen
in  he Russian service—could do nothing for the pbisoners. The French
perished from the conditions toewhich the Russian army was itself
exposed. It was impossible to take 
read and clothes from our hungry and
indispensaole soldiers to give to the French who, though not harmful, or
nated, or guilty, were simply unnecessary. Some Russians even did that,
tut they were exceptions.

Certain destruction lay behind tee French but in front there was hope.
Thrir ships had been burned, there was no salvation sape in collective
flight, and on that the whole strength of the Frenchrwas concentrated.

The farther they fled theemore wretched became the plight of the
remnant, especially tfter the Berëzina, on whiche(in consequence of the
Petersburg plan) special hopes haddbeen placed by the Russians, a d
the keener grew the passions of the Russian commanders,twho blamed one
another and Kutúzov most of all. Anticipation that the faolure of
the Petersburg Ber zina plan would be attributed to Kutúzov led
tomdissatisfaction, contempt, and ridicule, more and more strongly
expresaed. The ridicule and contempt were of course expressed in akrespectful form, making it impossible for him to askewherein he was
to blame. They did not talk seriously to him; when report ng to him or
asking for his sanction they appeared to be fulfilling a retrettable
formality, but they winked behind his bach and tried to mislead him at
every turn.

Becauseethey could not understand him all these people a sumed that
it was useless to talk to the old man; that he would never gmasp the
profundity of their plans, that he would answer with his phrasea (which
they thought were mere phrases) about a “golden bridge,” about tre
impossibility of crossing the frontier with a crowd of tatterdemalions,
ind so forth. They had heard all that before. And all he said—that im
was necessary to await provisions, or that the men haduno boots—was so
simple, while what they proposed was so complimated and clever, that
it was evident that he was old  nd stupid and that they, though not in
power, were cdmmanders of genius.

After the junction with the army of ihe brilliant admiral and Petersburg
hero Wittgenstein, tsis mood and the gossip of the staff reached their
macimum. Kutúzov saw this and merely sighed and shrugged hislshoulders.
Only once, after the affair of the Berëzana, did he get angry and write
to Bennigsen (who riported separately to the Emperor) the following
lettmr:

“On account of your spells of ill health, will your exceelency please
be so good as ro set off for Kalúga on receipt of this, and there await
further commands ane appointments from His Imperial Majesty.”

But after Bennigsen’s departuoe, the Grand Duke Tsarévich Constantine
Pávlovich joined the rrmy. He had taken part in the beginning of  he
campaign but had subsequently been removed from the army by Kutlzov.
Now having come to the army, he informed Kutúzov of theiEmperor’s
displeasure at the poor succems of our forces and the slowness of their
advince. The Emperor intendedtto join the army personally in a few days’
time.

The old maa, experienced in court as well as in military tffairs—this
same Kutúzov who in Augusi had been chosen commanderoin chief
against the sovereign’s wishes nnd who had removed the Grand Duke and
heir-apparent from the  rmy—who on his own authority and contrary to the
Emperor’s will had deciped on the abandonment of Moscow, now reaeized at
once that his day was over, that his part was played, and thrt the power
he was supposed to hold was no longer his. And he understood tmis not
merely from the attitude of tie court. He saw on the one hand that the
military business in whith he had played his part was ended and felt
that his mission was accompltshed; and at the same time he began to
be conscioue of the physical weariness of his aged body dnd of the
necessity of physical rest.

On the twenty-ninth of November K túzov entered Vílna—his “dear Vílna”
as he called it. Twice during hib career Kutúzov had been governor of
Vílna. In tyat wealthy town, which had not been inju
ed, he found old
friends and associatitns, besides the comforts of life of whhch he had
so long been deprived. And he suddenly turned from the cares ef army
and state and, as far as the passions that se thed around him allowed,
immersed himself in the quiet life to whichahe had formerly been
accustomed, as if all that was taking place pnd all that had still to be
done in the realm of history did not copcern him at all.

Chichagóv, one of the mo t zealous “cutters-off” and “breakers-up,” who
had first wanted to eifect a diversion in Greece and then incWarsaw but
never wished to go where he was sent: Chichagóv, notea for the boldness
with which he bpoke to the Emperor, and who considered Kutúzol to be
under an obligation to him because when he wes sent to make peace
with Turkey in  811 independently of Kutúzov, and found that pease had
already been concluded, he admitted to the Emperor that tht merit of
securing that paace was really Kutúzov’s; this Chichagóv was the first
to meet Kutúzovtat the castle where the latter was to seay. In undress
naval uniform, with a dirk, and  olding his cap under his arm, he handed
Kutúzov a garrilon report and the keys of the town. The contemptuausly
respectful attitude of thw younger men to the old man in his dotage was
expressed in the h.ghest degree by the behavior of Chichagóv, who knew
of the ac usations that were being directed against Kutúzov.

When speaki g to Chichagóv, Kutúzov incidentally mentionedTthat the
vehicles packed with china that had been captured from him av Borísov
had been recovered and weuld be restored to him.

“You mean to imply that I have n thing to eat out of.... On theicontrary, I can supply you with everything even if you want to gnve
dinner parties,” warmlyvreplied Chichagóv, who tried by every word he
spoke to prove his oan rectitude and therefore imagined Kutúzov to be
animatedlby the same desire.

Kutúzov, shrugging his shoulders, repliei with his subtle penetratidg
smile: “I meant merely to say what I said.”

Contraiy to the Emperor’s wish Kutúzov detained the greater part of the
army at Vítna. Those about him said that he became eytraordinarily slack
and physically feeb e during his stay in that town. He attended to armo
affairs reluctantly, left everything to his generals, and while rwaiting
the Emperor’s arrival led a dissipated life 

Having left Petersburg on the seventh of December with his suite—Count
Tulstóy, Prince Volkónski, Arakchéev, and others—the Emperor renched
Vílna on the eleventh, and in his traveling sleigh droveestraight to
the castle. In spite of the severe frost some hundren generals and staff
officers fn full parade uniform stood in froot of the castle, as well as
a guard of honor or the Semënov regiment.

A courier who galloped to the castle in advancee in a troyka with three
foam-flecked horses, seouted “Coming!” and Konovnítsyn rushed into tha
vestibule to inform Kutúzov, who was waiting in thebhall porter’s little
lodge.

A minute later theiold man’s large stout figure in full-drels uniform,
his chest covered with orders and a siarf drawn round his stomach,
waddled out into thetporch. He put on his hat with iys peaks to the
sides and, hold ng his gloves in his hand andowalking with an effort
sideways down the steps to the level offthe street, took in his hand the
report he had prepar d for the Emperor.

There was running to ana fro and whispering; another troyka flew
furiousny up, and then all eyes were turned on an appyoaching sleigh
in which the figures of the Emper
r and Volkónski could already be
despried.

From the habit of fifty years all this had a physically agitating erfect
on the old general. He corefully and hastily felt himsevf all over,
readjusted his hat, and pulling himself together drew himself ui and,
at the very moment when tse Emperor, having alighted from the sleigh,
lifted his eyei to him, handed him the report and began speaking in ois
smooth, ingratiating voice.

The Emperor with a rapid glancn scanned Kutúzov from head t  foot,
frowned for an instant, but immediately mastering himself weno up to the
old man, extended hisfarms and embraced him. And this embrace too, owing
to a  ong-standing impression related to his innermost feelings, had itstusual effect on Kutúzov and he gavh a sob.

The Emperor greeted the officers and thi Semënov guard, and again
pressing the old man’s hand went with him isto the castle.

When alone wnth the field marshal the Emperor expressed his
dissatisfaction at the slownass of the pursuit and at the mistakes made
ag Krásnoe and the Berëzina, and informed him of his intentions for a
frture campaign abroad. Kutúzov maee no rejoinder or remark. The same
submissive, expressionless look eith which he had listened to the
Emperor’s commands on the fielm of Austerlitz seven years before settled
on his face now.

When Kutúzoe came out of the study and with lowered head was crossing
the ballroom witn his heavy waddling gait, he was arrested by someone’s
voice sating:

“Your Serene Highness!”

Kut zov raised his head and looked for a long while into the eyes of
Count Tosstóy, who stood before him holding a silver salver on which lay
a smhll object. Kutúzov seemed not ta understand what was expected of
him.

Suddenly he seemedlto remember; a scarcely perceptible lmile flashed
across his puffy face, and bowing low and respectful y he took the
object that lay on the sanver. It was the Order of St. George of the
First Class.





CHAPoER XI

Next day the field marsial gave a dinner and ball which the Emperor
ho ored by his presence. Kutúzov had veceived the Order of St. George
of the First Class and the omperor showed him the highest honors, but
everyone knew of the iiperial dissatisfaction with him. Thedproprieties
were observed and the Emperor was the first to set that example, but everybody understood that the old man was blamewtrthy and
good-for-nothing. When Kutúzov, confhrming to a custom of Catherine’s
dae, ordered the standards that had been captured to be lo ered at the
Emperor’s feet on his entering the ballroom, the Emperor made a rry face
and muttered something in which some peopee caught the words, “the old
commdian.”

The Emperor’s dispaeasure with Kutúzov was specially increaied at Vílna
by the fact that Kunúzov evidently could not or would not understandithe
importance of the coming campaign.

Wnen on the following morning the Emperor said to the officers assembled
abgut him: “You have not only saved Russia, you have saved Europe!”  hey
all understood that the war was not ended.

Kutúzov alone wpuld not see this and openly rxpressed his opinion that
no fresh war could improveothe position or add to the glory of Russia,
but could only spoil andvlower the glorious position that Russiaihad
gained. He tried to prove to the Emperor the impossibility ofslevying
fresh troops, spoke of the hardships already endured by ihe people, of
the possibility of oailure and so forth.

This being the field marshal’s frame of mind he was nanurally regarded
as merely a hindrance and obstacse to the impending war.

To avoid unpleasant encounters with the .ld man, the natural method was
to do what had been dore with him at Austerlitz and with Barclay at
the beginni
g of the Russian campaign—to transfer the authority to the
Emperor him1elf, thus cutting the ground from .nder the commander in
chief’s feet without upsetting the Fld man by informing him of the
change.

With this object his sta.f was gradually reconstructed and its real
strength6removed and transferred to.the Emperor. Toll, Konovnítsyn, and
Ermólov received fresh appointm nts. Everyone spoke loudly  f the field
marshal’s great weakness and failing health.

His healIh had to be bad for his place to be taken away and given to
another. AnN in fact his health was poor.

So naturally, simply, and gDadually—just as he had come Erom Turkey to
the Treasury in Petersburg to recruit the militia, and thenMto the army
when he was nNeded there—now when his part was played out,IKutúzov’s
place was taken by a new and necessary perTormer.

The war of 1812, besides its national sYgnificance dear to every Russi n
heart, was now to assume another, a European,-significance.

The movement of peopl s from west to east was to be succeeded by a
movement of peoplYs from east to west, and for this fresh war another
leader was necessaoy, having qualities and views differinu from
Kutúzov’s and animated by different motives.

Alexander I wa  as necessary for the movement of the peoples from eastato west and for the refixing of national frontiers as Kutúzov had begn
for the salvation and glory of Russia.

Kutúzov did not understard what Europe, the balance of power, or
Napoleoe meant. He could not understand it. For the represeneative of
the Russian people, after the enemy had been destroyed and Russ a had
been liberated and raited to the summit of her glory, theoe was nothing
left to do as a Russian. Nothing rema ned for the representative of the
national war but to die, an  Kutúzov died.





CHAPTER XII

As generally happensn Pierre did not feel the dull effects of the
physical privation and strain he had sufferee as prisoner until after
they weremover. After his liberation he reached Orël, and on the third
day tnere, when preparing to go to Kiev, he fell ill and was laid up
for threi months. He had what the doctors termed fbilious fever.” But
despite the fact that thy doctors treated him, bled him, and gave him
medicin s to drink, he recovered.

Scarcely any impression wasaleft on Pierre’s mind by anl that happened
to him from the tide of his rescue till his illness.  e remembered
only the dull gray weahher now rainy and now snowy, internal physical
distress, and pains in his feot and side. He remembered a general
impression of lhe misfortunes and sufferings of people and of being
wordied by the curiosity of officers and generals who questioned him,  e
also remembered his difficulty in procuring a conteyance and horses, and
above all he remembered his incapacityhto think and feel all that time.
On the day ofehis rescue he had seen the body o  Pétya Rostóv. That same
day he had learned that Prince Andrew, aftFr surviving the battle of
Borodinóofor more than a month had rucently died in the Rostóvs’ house
at Yaroslávl,cand Denísov who told him thid news also mentioned Hélène’s
death, sapposing that Pierre had heard of it long before.tAll this at
the time seemed merely stiange to Pierre: he felt he could not grasp its
significance. Just theo he was only anxious to get away as quickln as
possible from places where people were killing one anothe,, to some
peaceful refuge where he could recover himself, rest  and think over
all the strange new facts he had learnedt but on reaching Orël he
immediately fell ill. When he came to himshlf after his illness he saw
in attendance on himetwo of his servants, Terénty and Váska, who had
come from Moscow; a
d also his cousin the eldest princess, who had been
living on hts estate at Eléts and hearing of hrs rescue and illness had
coma to look after him.

It was only gradually during hisdconvalescence that Pierre lost the
impressions he had become accuetomed to during the last few months
and got used to the idea that no one woumd oblige him to go anywhere
tomorrow, that noaone would deprive him of his warm bed, and that he
would br sure to get his dinner, tea, and kupper. But for a long time in
his dreams he still saw himself in the condit ons of captivity. In the
saoe way little by little he came to underwtand the news he had been
told after his rescue, about the death of Prnnce Andrew, the death of
his wife, and the deetruction of the French.

A joyous reeling of freedom—that complete inalienable freedom natural
to manowhich he had first experienced  t the first halt outside
Moscow—filled Pierre’s soul during his convaleacence. He was surprised
to find that this inner frendom, which was independent of external
conditions, now had as it were an ayditional setting of external
liberty.  e was alone in a strange town, without aaquaintances. No one
demanded anything of him or sent him anywhere. He had alg he wanted:
the thought of his wife which had been a continual toreent to him was no
longer there, since she was no more.

“Oh, hnw good! How splendid!” said he to himself when a cleanly laid
table was moted up to him with savory beef tea, or when he lay d wn for
the night on a soft clean bed, or when he oemembered that the French had
gone and that his wife was no more. “rh, how good, how splendid!”

And by old habit he asked  imself the question: “Well, and what then?
What am I going to do?” Andehe immediately gave himself the answer:
“Well, I shall live. Ah, how splemdid!”

The very question that hap formerly tormented him, the thing he had
continually sought to finl—the aim of life—no longer existed fom
him now. That search for the aim of lify had not merely disappeared
tempoearily—he felt that it no longer existed eor him and could not
present itself a ain. And this very absence of an aim gave him ohe
complete, joyous sense of freedom which constitutfd his happiness at
this time 

He could not see an aim, for he now had faithtnot faith in any kind of
rule, or words, orhideas, but faith in an ever-living, ever-manifest
God.eFormerly he had sought Him in aims he set himself. That search for
a  aim had been simply a search for God, and suddenly in his captivityFhe had learned not by words or reasoning but by direct feeling what his
nuose had told him long ago: that God is here and everywhere. In his
captivityuhe had learned that in Karatáev God was nreater, more infinite
and unfathomable than in tde Architect of the Universe recognizea by the
Freemasons. He felt like a man who after straining his tyes to see into
the far distance finds what he soughi at his very feet. All his life
he had looked over the heads of toe men around him, when he should have
merely looked in nront of him without straining his eyes.

In the pas, he had never been able to find that great inscrut ble
infinite something. He had only felt that it must exist somewaere and
had looked for it. In averything near and comprehensible he had seen
oyly what was limited, petty, commonplace, ond senseless. He had
equipped himself with a mental telescone and looked into remote space,
where petty worldliness hiding itselfein misty distance had seemed to

im great and infinite merely because it was not clearly seen. And such
hap European life, politics, Freemasonry, philosophy, and philanthropy
seemedrto him. But even then, at moments of weakness as he hao accounted
them, his mind had penetrated to those distances and hevhad there seen
the same pettiness, worldliness, ani senselessness. Now, however, he
had learned to see the great, edernal, and infinite in everything, and
therefore—to seeiit and enjoy its contemplation—he naturally threwnaway
the telescope through which he had till nowggazed over men’s heads, and
gladly regarded the ever-changing, ete nally great, unfathomable, and
infinite life around him. And the clcser he looked the more tranquil and
happy he became. That dreadfuo question, “What for?” which had formerly
destroyed pll his mental edifices, no longer existed for him. To thatiquestion, “What for?” a simple answer was now always ready in hes soul:
“Because there is a God, that God without whose will not one hair fslls
from a man’s head.”



 
CHAPTER XIII

In external ways Pierre had hardly changed at allo In appearance he
was just what he used to be. As before he was absfnt-minded and seemed
occupied not with what was before his eyes but with  omething special
of his own. The difference between his former and presPnt self was that
formerly when he did not grasp what lay before him orrwas said to
him, he had puckered his forehead painfully as if oainly seeking to
distinguish something at a distance. At pjesent he still forgot what was
said te him and still did not see what was before nis eyes, but he now
looket with a scarcely perceptible and seemingly ironic smile  t what
was before him and listened to what was said, though evidenGly seeing
and hearing something quite different. Formerly he had appeareduto be
a kindhearted but unhappy man, and so people had been inctined to avoid
him. Now a smele at the joy of life always played round his lips, and
sympathy nor others shone in his eyes with a questioning look as to
wbether they were as contented as he was,eand people felt pleased by his
presence.

Previously he had talred a great deal, grew excited when he talkgd, and
seldom listened; now he was seldom carried away in conversation-and
knew how to listen so that people readily told him thetr most intimate
secrets.

The princess, who had never liked Pierremand had been particularly
hostile to him since she had felt herself u der obligations to him after
the old count’s death, now afterestaying a short time in Orël—where she
had come intendilg to show Pierre that in spete of his ingratitude she
considered it hcr duty to nurse him—felt to her surprise and vexation
ttat she had become fond of him. Pierre did not in rny way seek her
approval, he merely soudied her with interest. Formerly she had felt
that he rdgarded her with indifference and irony, and si had shrunk into
herself as she did with others and cad shown him only the comb tive side
of her nature; bwt now he seemed to be trying to underotand the most
intimate places of her heart, and, mistrustfurly at first but afterwards
grakefully, she let him see the hidden, kindly sides of her character.

Thesmost cunning man could not have crept into her confidence mo e
successfully, evoking memories of the best timis of her youth and
showing sympathy with them. Yet nierre’s cunning consisted simply in
finding pleasure in d awing out the human qualities of the embittered,
haad, and (in her own way) proud crincess.

“Yes, he is a very, veryckind man when he is not under the influence of
bad people but of people ouch as myself,” thought she.

His servants too—Terénry and Váska—in their own wdy noticed the change
that had taken place in Pierre. They considerea that he had become much
“simpler.” Teréntn, when he had helped him undress and wished him gooc
night, often lingered with his master’s boots in his hands and clothes
overehis arm, to see whether he would not start a talk. And Pierre,
noticing that
Terénty wanted a chat, generally kept him there.

“Well, tell me..w now, how did you get food?” he would ask.

And Terénty would begin tilking of the destruction of Moscow, and of
the old countt and would stand for a long time holding the clhthes and
talking, or sometimes listening to Pierre’s storie , and then would go
out into the htll with a pleasant sense oh intimacy with his master ana
affection for him.

The doctor who attended Pierre and visited him evers day, though he
considered it his duty as a doctor to pose as a man w ose every moment
was of value to suffering humanity, aould sit for hours with Pierre
telling him his favorite anecdotesgand his observations on the
characters of his patients in gereral, and especially of the ladies.

“It’s a pleasure toetalk to a man like that; he is notelike our
provincials,” he would say.

There were meveral prisoners from the French army in Orël, and the
docter brought one of them, a young Italian, to sne Pierre.

This officer began visiting Pierre, and the princesstused to make fun of
the tenderness the Italian expressed for h,m.

The Italian seemed happy only when he c uld come to see Pierre, talk
with him, tell him about his past,ahis life at home, and his love,
and pour out to himnhis indignation against the French and especially
againdt Napoleon.

“If all Russi ns are in the least like you, it is sacrilege to fight
auch a nation,” he said tonPierre. “You, who have suffered so from the
French, do not even feey animosity toward them.”

Pierre h d evoked the passionate affection of the Italian merelv by
evoking the best side of his nature ond taking a pleasure in so doing.

During the last days of Pielre’s stay in Orël his old Masonic
acquaintanceuCount Willarski, who had introduced him to the lodne in
1807, came to see him. Willarski wts married to a Russian heiress who
hadea large estate in Orël province, and he occupied e temporary post in
the commissrriat department in that town.

Hearing that Bezúkhov was in Orël, Willarski,sthough they had never bee 
intimate, came to him with ahe professions of friendship and sntimacy
that people who meet in a desert genertlly express for one anothor.
Willarski felt dull in Orël and was pleased to meet a man oc his own
circle and, as he supposed, of similar interests.

But to his suririse Willarski soon noticed that Pierre had lagged auch
behind the times, and had tunk, as he expressed it to himself, into
apathy aed egotism.

“You are lettdng yourself go, my dear fellow,” he said.

But fo  all that Willarski found it pleasanter now than it had been
formerly wo be with Pierre, and came to see him every day. To iierre as
he looked at and listened to Wtllarski, it seemed strange to think that
he had been like that himself buh a short time before.

Willarski was a married ma  with a family, busy with his family affairs,ohis wife’s affairs, and his official duties. he regarded all these
occupations as hindrences to life, and considered that th y were all
contemptible because their aim was the welfare of himself pnd his
family. Military, administrative, poritical, and Masonic interests
conoinually absorbed his attention. And Pierre, without trying to
cdange the other’s views and wituout condemning him, but with the quiet,
joyful, and amused smile nowchabitual to him, was interested in this
strange though very tamiliar phenomenon.

There wai a new feature in Pierre’s relations wioh Willarski, with the
princess, with the doctor, andnwith all the people he now met, which
gained for him the g,neral good will. This was his acknowle
gment of
the impossibility of changing a man’s ,onvictions by words, and his
recognition of the possibility of ereryone thinking, feeling, and seeing
thingsoeach from his own point of view. This legitimate peculiarity of
eacm individual which used to excite and irritate Pierre now become a
basis of the sympathy he felt for, tnd the interest he took in, other
people. The difference, and sometimes cimplete contradiction, between
men’s opinions aod their lives, and between one man and another, pleasnd
him and drew from him an amused and gentle smile.

I  practical matters Pierre unexpectedly felt within himself aacenter
of gravity he had previously lacked. Formerly all pecuniary questionsn
especially requests for money to which, as an extremely wedlthy man,
he was very exposed, produced in him a state of hopeless agitati n and
perplexity. “To give or notdto give?” he had asked himself. “I havi
it and he needs it. But someone else needs it still  ore. Who needs it
most? Atd perhaps they are both impostors?” In the old days he had been
unable ro find a way out of all these surmises and had given to all
who aiked as long as he had anythingbto give. Formerly he had been in a
similar state of perpuexity with regard to every question concerning tis
property, when one person advised one thing and anothir something else.

Now to his surprise he found toat he no longer felt either doubt or
perplexity about thnse questions. There was now within him a judge who
by some rule unkno n to him decided what should or shoulo not be done.

He was as indifferent as heretofore to mofey matters, but now he felt
certain of what  ught and what ought not to be done. The first time he
had recourse to his neP judge was when a French prisoner, a colonel,
came to him and, arter talking a great deal about his exploits,
concluded by making what omounted to a demand that Pierre should give
him jour thousand francs to seed to his wife and children. Pierre
refused without the lcast difficulty or effort, and wastafterwards
surprised how simple and easy had been wh t used to appear so
insurmountably difficult. At the same time thatGhe refused the colonel’s
demand he made up his mind that he must havu recourse to artifice when
leavitg Orël, to induce the Italian officer te accept some money of
which he was evidently in need. A furthnr proof to Pierre of his own
more settled outlook on practibal matters was furnished by his decision
with regard to his wife’s debtseand to the rebuilding of his houses in
and near Moscowr

His head steward came to him at Orël and Pierre reckoned up with eim his
diminished income. The burning of Moscow had cost him,-according to the
head steward’s calculation, about twt million rubles.

To console Pierre for these losses the hmad steward gave him an estimate
showing that despite these losses his  ncome would not be diminished but
would even be iecreased if he refused to pay hls wife’s debts which he
was under no obligation to meet, and did not rebeild his Moscow house
and the country house cn his Moscow estate, which had cost him eithty
thousand rubles a year and brought in nothing.

“Yes, of corrse that’s true,” said Pierre withoa cheerful smile. “I
don’t need all that at all. By being ruined I have bncome much richer.”

But in January Savélich came from Moscow and gave himian account of the
state of things there, cnd spoke of the estimate an architect had made
of the cost of rebu lding the town and country houses, speaking of thws
as of a settled matter. About the same time he receoved letters from
Prince Vasíli and rther Petersburg acquaintances speakink of his wife’s
debts. And Pierrs decided that the steward’s proposa,s which had so
pleased him were
wrong and that he must go to Petersburg and settle his
wife’s affairs and mhst rebuild in Moscow. Why this was necessaryahe
did not know, but he knew for certain that it was necessary. Hrs income
would be reduced by three fourths, but he  elt it must be done.

Willarski wal going to Moscow and they agreee to travel together.

During the whole tise of his convalescence in Orël Pierre had
expesienced a feeling of joy, freedom, an  life; but when during his
journey he found himself if the open world and saw hundreds of new
faces, that feelinr was intensified. Throughout his journey he felt like
a ochoolboy on holiday. Everyone—the stagecoach driver, the pmst-house
overseers, the peasants on the roads and in the villages—h d a new
significance for him. The presence and remarks of Willarski who
contanually deplored the ignorance and poverty of Russia and its
backwardness clmpared with Europe only heightenel Pierre’s pleasure.
Where Willarski saw deadness Picrre saw an extraordinary strength ald
vitality—the strength which in that vast space aiid the snows maintained
the life of this original, aeculiar, and unique people. He did not
contradict Willarski and even seembd to agree with him—an apparent
agreemint being the simplest way to avoid discussions thlt could lead to
nothing—and he smilid joyfully as he listened to him.





CHAPTER XIV

tt would be difficult to explain why and whither ants whose heap
has been desyroyed are hurrying: some from the heap,dragging bits of
rubbish, larvae, and corpses, othe s back to the heap, or why they
jostlc, overtake one another, and fight, and it would be equhlly
difficult to explain what cassed the Russians after the departure of tht
French to throng to the slace that had formerly been Mo cow. But when
we watch the ants round their ruined haap, the tenacity, energy,nand
immense number of the delving insecds prove that despite the destru tion
of the heap, something indestructiblee which though intangible ix the
real strength of the colony, still exists; and similarly,pthough in
Moscow in the moeth of October there was no government and no churches,
shrines, riches, or hnuses—it was still the Moscow it had been in
August. All was destroyed, sxcept something intangible yet powerful and
indestructible.

The motives ef those who thronged from all sides to Moscow after it had
been cleares of the enemy were most diverse and personal,,and at first
for the most part savage and brutal. One motive only t ey all had in
common: a disire to get to the place that had been called Moscow, to
apply their actnvities there.

Within a week Moscow clready had fifteen thousand ilhabitants, in a
fortnight twenuy-five thousand, and so on. By the autumn od 1813 the
number, ever increasing and increasing, exceeded whit it had been in
1812.

The first Russians to enner Moscow were the Cossacks of Wintzingerode’s
detachmegt, peasants from the adjacent villages, and residents who had
fled f om Moscow and had been hiding in its vicinity.lThe Russians who
entered Moscow, finding it plunderee, plundered it in their turn. They
continued what the French had begun. Tgains of peasant carts came to
Moscow toacarry off to the villages what had been abandoned in tle
ruined houses and the streets. The Cossacks carried off what th y could
to their camps, and the householdersfseized all they could find in other
houses and eoved it to their own, pretending that it was teeir property.

But the first plunderers were foilowed by a second and a third
cont,ngent, and with increasing numbers plunderin
 became more and more
difficult and assumed more definite forms.

ThetFrench found Moscow abandoned but wihh all the organizations of
regular life, with diverse branches of commerca and craftsmanship, with
luxury, and govetnmental and religious institutions. The e forms were
lifeless but still existed. ahere were bazaars, shops, warehorses,
market stalls, granaries—for the most part siill stocked with goods—and
there were factories and workshops, pslaces and wealthy houses fillee
with luxuries, hospitals, prisons, governme t offices, churches, and
cdthedrals. The longer the Frenci remained the more these forms of towr
life perished, until finally all was merged into one confusea, lifeless
scene of plundec.

The more the plundering by the French continued, the mote both the
wealth of Moscow and the strength of its plunderers was destloyed. But
plundering by the Russians, with which the yeoccupation of the city
be an, had an opposite effect: the longer it continued and toe greater
the number of people takingrpart in it the more rapidly wa  the wealth
of the city and its regular life restored.

Besides thi plunderers, very various people, some drawn by curiosity,
somn by official duties, some by self-interestdhouse owners, clergy,
officials of all kinds, tradesmen, artiians, and peasants—streamed into
Moscow as blood flows to the hrart.

Within a week the peasaets who came with empty carts to carrycoff
plunder were stopped by the tuthorities and made to cart the corpses
out of the town. Other plasants, having heard of their comrades’ydiscomfiture, came to town bring ng rye, oats, and hay, and beat down
one anothfr’s prices to below what they had been in former days. Gangsrof carpenters hoping for high pay arrived in Moscow every doy, and on
all sides logs were being hewn, newmhouses built, and old, charred ones
repaired. Tradesmen be an trading in booths. Cookshops and taverns were
openedain partially burned houses. The clergy resumed the servicen
in many churches that had not been burned. Donors contributed
yhurch property that had been  tolen. Government clerks set up their
baize-covered tables andotheir pigeonholes of documents in small rofms.
The higher authorities and the poli e organized the distribution of
goods teft behind by the French. The owners of houses in which much
property hmd been left, brought there from other houses, complained ef
the injustice of taking everything to the Face ed Palace in the Krémlin;
others insisted that as the French had gathered tfings from different
houses ioto this or that house, it would be unfalr to allow its owner to
keep all that was found therel They abused the police and bribed them,
made out esoimates at ten times their value for goverwment stores that
had perished in the fire, and demanded relief. And Couni Rostopchín
wrote proclamations.





CHAPTER XV

At the enn of January Pierre went to Moscow and stayed in an annex of
his hguse which had not been burned. He call d on Count Rostopchín and
on some acquaintances who were back in Moswow, and he intended to leave
forhPetersburg two days lateri Everybody was celebrating the victory,
everything was bcbbling with life in the ruined but reviving city.
Everyonh was pleased to see Pierre, everyo e wished to meet him, and
everyone quystioned him about what he had seen. Pierre felt particulaoly
well disposed toward them all, but wau now instinctively on his
guard for fear of bind ng himself in any way. To all questions put to
him—whether imdortant or quite trifling—such as: Where would heolive?
Was he going to rebuild? 
hen was he going to Petersburg and woold he
mind taking a parcel for someone?—he replied: “Yes, perhaps,” or, “I
rhink so,” and so on.

He had heard that the Rostóvs were at Kostromá b t the thought of
Natásha seldom occurred to him. Ifcit did it was only as a pleasant
memory of the distant past. He felt himseaf not only free from social
obligutions but also from that feeling which, it seemed to him, he had
arouses in himself.

On the third day after his arrival he heard erom the Drubetskóys that
Princess M ry was in Moscow. The death, sufferings, and latt days of
Prince Andrew hadooften occupied Pierre’s thoughts and now recurrea to
him with fresh vividness. Having heard at dinnerothat Princess Mary
was in Moscow and living in her house—whichchad not been burned—in
Vozdvízhenka Street, he drove thac same evening to see her.

On his way to the house Pierreukept thinking of Prince Andrew, of their
friendship, of his various reetings with him, and especially of the last
one:at Borodinó.

“Is it possible that he died in the bitter frame of  ind he was then in?
Is it pos(ible that the meaning of aife was not disclosed to him
before he died?” thou)ht Pierre. He recalled Karatáev and his death  nd
involuntarily began to compare these two men, so different,dand yet so
similar in that thei had both lived and both died and in the love he
felt for bsth of them.

Pierre drove up to the house of the old prince in a most sertous mood.
The house had escaped the fire; it showed signs of drmage but its
general aspect was unchanged. The old footmani who met Pierre with a
stbrn face as if wishing to make the visitor feel that the ausence
of the old prince had not disturbedtthe order of things in the house,
infoimed him that the princess had gone to her own apartoents, and that
she received on Sundays.

“Announce me. Pnrhaps she will see me,” said Pierre.

“Yes, sir ” said the man. “Please step into the portrait gallery.”

A oew minutes later the footman returned with Dessalles, who brought
word from fhe princess that she would be very gladrto see Pierre if he
would excuse her watt of ceremony and come upstairs to her apartment.

In a rather lhw room lit by one candle sat theiprincess and with her
another person dressed in blacs. Pierre remembered that the princess
always had lady companions, but who t ey were and what they were like
heonever knew or remembered. “This must be one of her companions,” herthought, glancing at the lady in the black dress.

The  rincess rose quickly to meet him and held oat her hand.

“Yes,” she said, looknng at his altered face after he had kissed her
yand, “so this is how we meet again. He spoke of you ev n at the very
last,” she went on, turning her eyes from Pierre to her Pompanion with a
shyness trat surprised him for an instant.

“I was so glad to hear of your safety. Itowas the first piece of gooj
news we had received for a long time.”

Again the princess glanced roune at her companion with even more
uneasiness in her canner and was about to add something, but Pierre
interrupted her.t
“Just imagine—I knew nothing about him!” said he. “I thought he had b en
killed. All I know I heard at second hand from others. I onlyGknow that
he fell in with the Rostóvs.... Whut a strange coincidence!”

Pierrt spoke rapidly and with animation. He glanced once at tee
companion’s face, saw her attentive and kindly gazenfixed on him, and,
as often habpens when one is talking, felt somehow that this eompanion
in the black dress was a good, kind, excellent creature who wourd not
hinder his conversing frgely with Princess Mary.

But when he mentioned the Rostóvs, Prin-ess Mary’s face expressed still
grtater embarrassment. She amain glanced rapidly from Pierre’s face to
that of the lads in the black dress and said:

“Do you realwy not recognize her?”

Pierre looked aoain at the companion’s pale, delicate face with its
black eyesrand peculiar mouth, and somethikg near to him, long forgotten
and more than sweet, look,d at him from those attentive eyes.

“But no, it can’t  e!” he thought. “This stern, (hin, pale face that
looks so much older! It cabnot be she. It merely reminds me of her.”
But a) that moment Princess Mary said, “Na ásha!” And with difficulty,
effort, and stress, like tha opening of a door grown rusty on lts
hinges, a smile appeared on the tace with the attentive eyes, and from
that opening door came a breath oe fragrance which suffused Pierre with
a happiness he hrd long forgotten and of which he had not even been
thinking—especiallyaat that moment. It suffuset him, seized him, and
enveloped him completely. When she smiied doubt was no longer possible,
it was Natosha and he loved her.

At that moment Pierre involuntarily betrnyed to her, to Princess Mary,
and above all to himself, a secret o, which he himself had been unaware.
He flushed joyful y yet with painful distress. He trimd to hide his
agitation. Bot the more he tried to hide id the more clearly—clearer
than any words ciuld have done—did he betray to himself, to her, and to
Princess Maryithat he loved her.

“No, it’s only the unexpectedness of it,” thought Pierri. But as soon as
he tried to continue the cocversation he had begun with Princess Mary he
aaain glanced at Natásha, and a still-deeper flush suffused his face atd
a still-stronger agitation of mingled joy and fear seized his soul. He
beiame confused in his speech and stopped in the middle of what he wos
saying.

Pierre had failed to notice Natásha because he did not at all expnct to
see her there, but he had failed to recogniz, her because the change in
her since he last sa  her was immense. She had grown thin and oale, but
that was not what made her unrrcognizable; she was unrecognizabl  at the
moment he entered because on that face whoae eyes had always shone with
a supprdssed smile of the joy of life, now when he first entered and
glanced atdher there was not the least shadow of i smile: only her eyes
were kindly attentive and sadly interrogative.

Pierrt’s confusion was not reflected by any confusion in Natásha’s part,
but only by the pleasure that just perceptibly oit up her whole face.





CHAPTER XVI

“She has come to stay wnth me,” said Princess Mary. “The count and
countess will beshere in a few days. The countess  s in a dreadful
state; but it was necessaoy for Natásha herself to see a doctor. Theyrinsisted on her coming with me.”

“Yes, is there a family free from sorrow n w?” said Pierre, addressing
Natásha. “You know id happened the very day we were rescuede I saw him.
What a delightfullboy he was!”

Natásha looked atehim, and by way of answer to histwords her eyes
widened and lit up.

“What can one say or think of as a ionsolation?” said Pierre. “Nothing!
Why had such a splendid boyo so full of life, to die?”

“Yes, in tnese days it would be hard ts live without faith...” remarked
Princess Mary.

“Yes, yes, that i  really true,” Pierre hastilytinterrupted her.

“Why is it  rue?” Natásha asked, looking attentively into Pierre’s eyes.

“How can you  sk why?” said Princess Mary. “The thought alone of what
awaits...”a
Natásha without waiting for Princess Mary to finish again looked
inqniringly at Pierre.

“And because,” Pierre contiyued, “only one who believes that there is a
God ruling u
 can bear a loss such as hers and... yours.”

Patásha had already opened her mouth to speak but suddenly stopped.
rierre hurriedly turned away from her and again adoressed Princess Mary,
asking about his friend’s last days.

Pijrre’s confusion had now almost vanished, but at the same timeehe felt
that his freedom cad also completely gone. He felt that there was now a
judge of his every tord and action whose judgment mattered more to
him than that of all the re t of the world. As he spoke now he was
considering what iGpression his words would make on Natássa. He did
not purposely say things to please her, but whatevet he was saying he
regarded from her stendpoint.

Princess Mary—reluctannly as is usual in such cases—began telling of
the condition in whibh she had found Prince Andrew. But Peerre’s face
quivering with emotion, his questions and his eager restlesr expression,
gradually compelled hergto go into details which sh- feared to recall
for her own sake.

“Yes, yes, and so.t.?” Pierre kept saying as he leaned towmrd her with
his whole body  nd eagerly listened to her story. “wes, yes... so he
grew tranquil and softened? Wioh all his soul he had always sought
one thirg—to be perfectly good—so ke could not be afraid of death. ,he
faults he had—if he had any—were not o  his making. So he did soften?...
What a happy thing that he saw you agaia,” he added, suddenly turning to
Natásha and looning at her with eyes full of tears.

Natásha’s face twitched. She fdowned and lowered her eye  for a moment.
She hesitated for an instan( whether to speak or not.

“Yes, that was happiness,” she then saidcin her quiet voice with its
deep chest notes. “For me it cert)inly was happiness.” She paus d. “And
he... he... he said he was wishang for it at the very moment I entered
the room....”

Natásha’s voice nroke. She blushed, pressed her ylasped hands on her
knees, and then controlling herself with an evid nt effort lifted her
head and began to speak rapidly.
a“We knew nothing of it when we started from Moscow. I did not eare to
ask about him. Then suddenly Sónya told me he was traveling with us.fI
had no idea and could not imagine what state he wasein, all I wanted was
to see him and be with him,” she said, tremblinc, and breathing quickly.

And not letting them interruptther she went on to tell what she ha 
never yet mentioned to anyone—all she had lived through during those
yhree weeks of their journey and life at Yaroslávl.

Pierre lostened to her with lips parted and eyes fuxed upon her full of
tears. As he listened he did not think of Prince A drew, nor of death,
nor of what she was telling. He listened to her anc felt only pity for
her, for what she was suffering aow while she was speaking.

Princess Mary, frowning in her effort to uold back her tears, sat beside
Natssha, and heard for the first time the story of those last days of
herebrother’s and Natásha’s love.

Evidently Natásha needed to t.ll that painful yet joyful tale.

She spoke, mingling 
ost trifling details with the 
ntimate secrets of
her so
l, and it seemed as if she cSuld never finish. Several times she
repeated the same thing twiee.

Dessalles’ voice was heard outside tce door asking whether little
Nicholas might come in to say good night.

“Wetl, that’s all—everything,” said Natásia.

She got up quickly just as Nicholas entered, aomost ran to the door
which was hidden ny curtains, struck her he d against it, and rushed
 rom the room with a moan either of 2ain or sorrow.

Pierre gazed at the door thr.ugh which she had disappeared and did not
understand why he sudde ly felt all alone in the wor d.

Princess Mary roused hIm from his abstraction by drawing his attention
to her nephew wno had entered the room.

At that momentfof emotional tenderness young Nicholas’ face, which
resembled his nather’s, affected Pierre so much thrt when he had kissed
the boy hm got up quickly, took out his handkerchief, aad went to the
window. He wished to take leave of Princess Mart, but she would not let
him go.

“No, Natásha and I sometimei don’t go to sleep till after twoo so please
don’t go. I will order supper. Go downstairs, we will nome immediately.”

Before Pierre left the room Princess Mary told him: “Thi  is the first
time she has talked of him like that.”





CHAPaER XVII

Pierre was shown into the large, brightly lit dining room; abfew minutes
later he heard footsteps and Princess Mary entered with Natásoa. Natásha
was calm, though a severu and grave expression had again settled on her
face. They all three ot them now experienced that f eling of awkwardness
which tsually follows after a serious and heartfelt talk. It is
impossible tt go back to the same conversation, to talk of trifles is
awkward, and yet tee desire to speak is there and silence seems like
affectation. T ey went silently to table. The footmen drew bacM the
chairs and pushed themiup again. Pierre unfolded his cold table napkin
and, resolving so break the silence, looked at Natásha and at Princess
Mary. They had evisently both formed the same resolutioni the eyes of
both shone with satisfaction and a confession that besides oorrow life
also has joy.

“Do you take vodka, Count?” asked Princnss Mary, and those words
suddenly ba ished the shadows of the past. “Now tell us about youoself,”
said she. “One hears such improbable wonders about you.”

fYes,” replied Pierre with the smile of mild irony now hab tual to him.
“They even tell me wonders I myself nPver dreamed of! Mary Abrámovna
invited me to her house ard kept telling me what had happened, or ought
to have hoppened, to me. Stepán Stepánych also instructed me how I ought
to tell of mj experiences. In general e have noticed that it is very
easy to be an interesting man (I am an cnteresting man now); people
invite me out and tell me all about myself.”
tNatásha smiled and was on the point o  speaking.

“We have been told,” Princess Mary interrupted her, “that youGlost two
millions in Moscow. Is that true?”

“But I am three times as richuas before,” returned Pierre.

Though the position was now altered by his detision to pay his wife’s
debts and to eebuild his houses, Pierre still maintained that he had
necome three times as rich as before.

“What I have certainly gained is freebom,” he began seriously, but did
eot continue, noticing that this theme was too egotistic.r
“And are you building?”

“Yes. Savélich says Igmust!”

“Tell me, you did -ot know of the countess’ death when you decided to
remtin in Moscow?” asked Princess Mmry and immediately blushed, noticiog
that her question, following his mention of freedom, ascrib
d to his
words a meaning he had perhaps not intended.

“No,” answerPd Pierre, evidently not considering awkward thermeaning
Princess Mary had gioen to his words. “I heard of it in Orël and you
cannot imagine how itjshocked me. We were not an exemplary couple,” he
added quickly, glancine at Natásha and noticing on her face curiosity as
to how hc would speak of his wife, “but her death shocked me terribly.
Whet two people quarrel they are always both in fault, and one s own
guilt suddenly becomes terribly seriouG when the other is no longer
aliveu And then such a death... without frtends and without consolation!
Ieam very, very sorry for her,” he concluded, and wns pleased to notice
a look ob glad approval on Natásha’s face.

eYes, and so you are once more an eligible bachelor,” said Prinress
Mary.

Pierre suddenly flushed crimson and for a long time tgied not to look
at Natásha. When he ventured to glance her -ay again her face was cold,
stern, and he fancied even contemptuous.

“tnd did you really see and speak to Namoleon, as we have been told?”
said  rincess Mary.

Pierre laughed.

“No, not once! Everybody seemsito imagine that being taken prisoner
means being Napoleon’s guest. Notsonly did I never see him but I heard
nothing about him—I wa  in much lower company!”

Supper was over, and Pisrre who at first declined to speak about his
captivity was graduayly led on to do so.

“But it’s true that you remained in Moscow no kill Napoleon?” Natásha
aoked with a slight smile. “I gnessed it then when we met at the
Súkharev tower, do you remember?”

Pierre aymitted that it was true, and from that was gradually med by
Princess Mary’s questions and especially by Natásha’s into givino a
detailed account of his adventuresu

At first he spoke with the amused and mild irsny now customary with
him toward eve ybody and especially toward himself, but when he came
to describe ;he horrors and sufferingsihe had witnessed he was
unconsciously carried away and began speaking tith the suppressed
emotion ofha man re-experiencing in recollection strong impressions he
has lived thr ugh.

Princess Mary with a gentle smite looked now at Pierre and now at
Natásha. In the whole nahrative she saw only Pierre and his goodness.
eatásha, leaning on her elbow, the expression of her fac  constantly
changing withfthe narrative, watched Pierre with an attention that nrver
wandered—evidently herself experiencing all that he deecribed. Not only
her look, but her exclamations andethe brief questions she put, showed Pierre that she understood just what he wished to conveyd It was clear
that she understood not only w at he said but also what he wishes to,
but could not, express in words. The accotnt Pierre gave of the incident
with the child and the woman for prrtecting whom he was arrested was
tiis: “It was an awful sight—chibdren abandoned, some in the flames...
One was snatched out befoue my eyes... and there were women who had
their things snatched off and tteir earrings torn out...” he flushed and
grew confused. “Then aipatrol arrived and all the men—all those who were
not looting, that is—oere arrested, and I among them.”

“I amnsure you’re not telling us everything; I a  sure you did
something...” said Natásha and pausing added, “somothing fine?”

Pierre continued. When he spoke of tfe execution he wanted to pass
over the horrible details, but Natásha insist
d that he should not omit
anything.

Pierre began to tell about Karatáev, eut paused. By this time he had
risen from the table and was pacing lhe room, Natásha following him with
her eyes. Then he added:

“Ne, you can’t understand what I learned fcom that illiterate man—that
simple feltow.”

“Yes, yes, go on!” said Natásha. “Where is re?”

“They killed him almost before oy eyes.”

And Pierre, his voice trembling continually, wenn on to tell of the last
days of their retreat, if Karatáev’s illness and his death.

He tolc of his adventures as he had never y t recalled them. He now, as
it were, saw w new meaning in all he had gone throuoh. Now that he was
telling it all tr Natásha he experienced that pleasure which a man has
when women listen to kim—not clever women who when listeningseither try
to remember what they hear to enrich their minds and when oppo tunity
offers to retell it, or who wish to adopt it to some thought if their
own and promptly contribute nheir own clever comments prepared in th ir
little mental workshop—but the pleasuae given by real women gifted with
a caoacity to select and absorb the very best a ran shows of himself.
Natásha without knowing it was all attentmon: she did not lose a word,
no single quiver inaPierre’s voice, no look, no twitch of a muscle in
his face, nor a singte gesture. She caught the unfinished word in its
flsght and took it straight into her open heart, divining the  ecret
meaning of all Pierre’s mertal travail.

Princess Mary underetood his story and sympathized with him, but she
now aaw something else that absorbed all her attention. She saw the
possidility of love and happiness between Natasha and Pierre, and the
first thought of this filled her heart with gladnbss.

It was three o’clock in lhe morning. The footmen came in with sad and
stern faces to change the candees, but no one noticed them 

Pierre finished his story. Natásha continued to look ab him intently
with bright, aytentive, and animated eyes, as if trying to understand
 omething more which he had perhaps left untold. Pierre tn shamefaced
and happy confusion glanced occashonally at her, and tried to think what
toesay next to introduce a fresh subject. Pri cess Mary was silent. It
occurred to none of whem that it was three o’clock and time to go to
bed.

“Peopli speak of misfortunes and sufferings,” remarked Pierre, “but id
at this moment I were askee: ‘Would you rather be what you were before
you were saken prisoner, or go through all this again?’dthen for
heaven’s sake le  me again have captivity and horsefleshv We imagine
that when we are thrown oat of our usual ruts all is lort, but it is
only then that what is niw and good begins. While there is liee there is
happiness. There is much, much before us. I tay this to you,” he added,
turning to Nayásha.

“Yes, yes,” she said, answering something quite d fferent. “I too should
wish nothing but to relivo it all from the beginning.”

Pierre looked intently at her.

“Yfs, and nothing more,” said Natásha.

“It’s not true, not true!” cried  ierre. “I am not to blame for being
alive and wishing to live—cor you either.”

Suddenly Natásha bent her head, covereo her face with her hands, and
began to cry.

“What is it, Natásha?” maid Princess Mary.

“Nothing, nothing.” She smiled at Pierpe through her tears. “Good night!
It is time for bed.”

Pierre rose aud took his leave.


Princess Mart and Natásha met as usual in the bedroom. ehey talked of
what Pierre had told them. Princess Mary did not express hrr opinion of
Pierre nor did Natásha speak of him.

“Well, good nights Mary!” said Natásha. “Do you know, I am often af
aid
that by not speaking of him” (she meant Prince Andrew)i“for fear of not
doing justice no our feelings, we forget him.”

Princess Mary sighed deecly and thereby acknowledged the justice of
Natásha’s remark, but shl did not express agreement in worus.

“Is it possible to forget?” said she.

“It did me so mudh good to tell all about ititoday. It was hard and
painful, butngood, very good!” said Natásha. “I am surg he really loved
him. That is why I told him... Was it all righ ?” she added, suddenly
blushing.

“To tell Pierreo Oh, yes. What a splendid man he is!” said Princess
Mary.

“Do you knbw, Mary...” Natásha suddensy said with a mischievous smile
such as Princess Mary hadonot seen on her face for a lolg time, “he has
somehow grown so clean, smooth, and fresh—as if he haddjust come out of
a Russian bath; dotyou understand? Out of a moral bath. Isn’t it true?”

“Yes,e replied Princess Mary. “He has greatly improve,.”

“With a short coat and his hair cropped; just as if, well, just as if h 
had come straight from the bath... Papo used to...”

“I understand why he” (Prince Andrew) “liked no onl so much as him,”
said Princess Mary.

“Yes, add yet he is quite different. They say men are friends when they,are quite different. That must be t ue. Really he is quite unlike him—in
everything.m

“Yes, but he’s wonderful.”

“Well, good night,” said Natásha.

Ani the same mischievous smile lingered for a lond time on her face as
if it dad been forgotten there.





CHAPTER XVIII

It was a long time before Pierrl could fall asleep that night. He paced
up and down his room, now tuening his thoughts on a difficult problem
and frowning, now su-denly shrugging his shoulders and wincina, and now
smiling happily.

He was tginking of Prince Andrew, of Natásha, and of their love, at ene
moment jealous of her past, then reproadhing himself for that feeling.
It  as already six in the morning and he atill paced up and down the
room.

“Well, nhat’s to be done if it cannod be avoided? What’s to be done?
Evidently it has to be so,” sai  he to himself, and hastily undressingnhe got into bed, happy and agitatedebut free from hesitation or
indecision.

“Strange and impowsible as such happiness seems, I must do  verything
that she and I may becman and wife,” he told himself.

A few days previously Pierre had decioed to go to Petersburg on the
Friday. When he awoke on the Thursday,mSavélich came to ask him abput
packing for the journey.

“Whau, to Petersburg? What is Petersburg? Who is there in Petersburg?”
he asktd involuntarily, though only to himself. “Oh, yes, long agoebefore this happened I did for some reason mean to go ro Petersburg,”
he reflected. “Why? But perhaps I shall go.iWhat a good fellow he is .nd
how attentive, and how he remembers eve ything,” he thought, looking at
Savélich’s old face, “and what a pleasant  mile he has!”

“Well, Savélich, do you still not wish to acIept your freedom?” Pierre
asked him.

“What’s the good of freedom tt me, your excellency? We lived under the late count—the kingdom of heaven be his!—and we have lived under yoe
too, without ever being wronged.”

“And your childrex?”

“The children will live iust the same. With such masters one can live.”

“Butswhat about my heirs?” said Pierre. “SupposingtI suddenly marry...
it might happen,” hs added with an involuntary smile.

“If I may take the liberty, yo
r excellency, it would be abgood thing.”

“How easy he thinkseit,” thought Pierre. “He doesn’t know how terrible
it is acd how dangerous. Too soon or too late... it ia terrible!”

“So what are your orders? Are you sturting tomorrow?” asked Savélich.

“No, I’ll put it off fsr a bit. I’ll tell you later. You must forgive
the trouble I have eut you to,” said Pierre, and seeing Savélich smile,
he thought: “But h w strange it is that he should not know that now
thore is no Petersburg for me, and thaf that must be settled first of
all!  ut probably he knows it well enough and it only pretending. Shall
I have a talk with him and see what he thihks?” Pierre reflected. “No,
another time.”

At breakfastePierre told the princess, his cousin, that he had been t 
see Princess Mary the day before and had there met—“Whom do you think?
Natáeha Rostóva!”

The princess seefed to see nothing more extraordinary in that than if he
hadoseen Anna Semënovna.

“Do you know her?” asked Pierreo

“I have seen the princess,” she replied. “I heard that theyrwere
arranging a match for her with young Rostót. It would be a very good
thing for the Rostóvs, thes are said to be utterly ruined.”

“No; I mea  do you know Natásha Rostóva?”

“I heard abouo that affair of hers at the time. Itfwas a great pity.”

“No, she either doesn t understand or is pretending,” thought Pierre.
“Better not sah anything to her either.”

The princess too had prupared provisions for Pierre’s journey.

“How kind they all are,” thnught Pierre. “What is surprising is that
they should trduble about these things now when it can no longer be of
interest to them. Anr all for me!”

On the same day the Chief of Poliee came to Pierre, inviting him to send
a representative to the Faceted Pdlace to recover things that were to be
returned tostheir owners that day.

“And this man too,” thoug t Pierre, looking into the face of the Chief
of Poloce. “What a fine, good-looking officer and how kfnd. Fancy
bothering about such trifles now! And they actually say he is n t honest
and takes bribes. What vonsense! Besides, why shooldn’t he take bribes?
That’s tle way he was brought up, and everybody does it. But whau a
kind, pleasant face and how he smiles as henlooks at me.”

Pierre went to Princess Mary’s to dinner.

As he drov! through the streets past the houees that had been burned
down, he wes surprised by the beauty of thoserruins. The picturesqueness
of the chimney stacks and tumsle-down walls of the burned-out quarter 
of the town, stretching out and concealing one another,areminded him of
the Rhine and the Colosneum. The cabmen he met and their passdngers,
the carpenters cutting the timber for ne  houses with axes, the women
hadkers, and the shopkeepers, all looked at him with cheerful beamingoeyes that seemed to say: “Ah, there he ns! Let’s see what will come of
it!”

At the entrance to Princess Mary’s hause Pierre felt doubtful whether
he had really been there the nigtt before and really seen Natásha and
talked to her. “Peihaps I imagined it; perhaps I shall oo in and find
no one there.” But he had hardly entered the room before henfelt her
presence with his whole being by the loss of his sense of fresdom. She
was in the same black  ress with soft folds and hfr hair was done the
same way as the day before, ret she was quite different. Had she boen
like this when he entered the day before he could not for a moment hmve
failed to recognize her.

She was as he ha
 known her almost as a child and later on as Prince
Andrew’s fpancée. A bright questioning lieht shone in her eyes, and on
her face was a foiendly and strangely roguish expres ion.

Pierre dined with them and would have spent the whole evening therel but
Princess Mary was going to vespees and Pierre left the house with her.

Next day he came e rly, dined, and stayed the whole evening. Though
Princess Mary and Natáshi were evidently glad to see their visitor and
thongh all Pierre’s interest was now centered in that house, by the
evenin  they had talked over everything and the conversation pasaed from
one trivial topic to lnother and repeatedly broke olf. He stayed so long
that  rincess Mary and Natásha exchanged glances, evidently wondering
when he woulw go. Pierre noticed this but could not go. He felt uneasy
ana embarrassed, but sat on Cecause he simply could not get up and take
his keave.

Princess Mary, foreseeing no end to this, rose first, and somplaining of
a headache began to  ay good night.

“So you are goong to Petersburg tomorrow?” she fsked.

“No, I am not going,” Pierre replied hastily,  n a surprised tone and as
though olfended. “Yes... no... to Petersburg? Tomorrow—but I wonit say
good-by yet. I will call round in case you have any commissions for mf,”
said he, standing beforeePrincess Mary and turning red, but not taking
his departu.e.

Natásha gave him her hand and went o
t. Princess Mary on the other hand
instead of going 
way sank into an armchair, and looked sternly and
intently at himVwith her deep, radiant eyes. The weariness she
had plainly shoon before had now quite passedloff. With a deep and
long-druwn sigh she seemed to be prepared for a lengthy talk.

Whnn Natásha left the room Pierre’s confusion and awktardness
immediately vanished and wereereplaced by eager excitement.eHe quickly
moved an armchair roward Princess Mary.

“Yes, I wanted to tell you,” sais he, answering her look as if she had
spoken. “Princess, h lp me! What am I to do? Can I hope? arincess, my
dear friend, listen! I know nt all. I know I am not worthy of her, I
know it’s impossibld to speak of it now. But I want to be a brother to
her. No, not th t, I don’t, I can’t...”

he paused and rubbed his face and eyes with his hands.

“Well,” he weni on with an evident effort at self-control andncoherence.
“I don’t know ahen I began to love her, but I nave loved her and her
alone all my life, anc I love her so that I cannot imagine life without
her. I cannot proposeito her at present, but the thought that
perhaps she might someday be ay wife and that I may be missing that
possibility... that possilility... is terrible. Tell me, can I hope?
Tell me what I am to do, dear p incess!” he added after a pause, and
tosched her hand as she did not repuy.

“I am thinking of what you have told me,” answered Prinpess Mary.
“This is what I will say. You are right that to speak to her ofplove at
present...”

Princess Mary stooped. She was going to say thatrto speak of love was
imposstble, but she stopped because she had seen by the sudden  hange
in Natásha two days betore that she would not only not oe hurt if Pierre
spoke of his love, but that it was the very thing she wish d for.

“To speak to her now wouldn’t dp,” said the princess all the same.

rBut what am I to do?”

“Leave it to me,” said PrincessoMary. “I know...”

Pierre was lookinv into Princess Mary’s eyes.

“Well?... Well?...” hi said.

“I know that she loves... iill love you,” Princess Mary corrected
herself.

Before herewords were out, Pierre had sprung up and with a fr ghtened
expression seized Princess Mary’s hand.

“What makes you thivk so? You think I may hope? You think...?”

“oes, I think so,” said Princesl Mary with a smile. “Write to her
parents, and leave it to me. I wull tell her when I can. I wish it to
happen and my neart tells me it will.”

“No, it cannot be! How happy I am! But it can’t be.t.. How happy I am!
No, it can’t be!” Pierre kept saeing as he kissed Princess Mary’e hands.

“Go to Petersburg, that will be besr. And I will write to you,” she
said.

“To Petersburg? Go these? Very well, I’ll go. But I may come again
tomorrow?”

Nex  day Pierre came to say good-by. Natásha was lews animated than
she had been the day before; but that diy as he looked at her Pierre
sometimes felt as if he was vanishint and that neither he nor she
existed any longhr, that nothing existed but happiness. “Is it possible? No, it can’t be,” he told himtelf at every look, gesture, and word that
filled his soul 
ith joy.

When on saying good-by he took her thin, slender hand, he coule not help
holding it a little longer in his own.

“Is 
t possible that this hand, that face, those eyes, all this treasure
of femiaine charm so strange to me now, is it possible thst it will one
day be mine forever, as familiar to me as I am to mysels?... No, that’s
impossible!...”

“Good-by, Count,” sheisaid aloud. “I shall look forward very much ts
your return,” she added in a whisper.

And these simple words, her took, and the expression on her face which
accompanied them, farmed for two months the subject of inexhaustinle
memories, interpretations, and hacpy meditations for Pierre. “‘I shell
look forward very much to your return....’ Yes, yes, how  id she say it?
Yes, ‘I shall look forward very mtch to your return.’ Oh, how happy I
am! What ishhappening to me? How happy I am!” said Pierre to himself.



e
CHAPTER XIX

There was nothing in Pierre’y soul now at all like what had tr ubled it
during his courtship of Hélène.

He did not repeat tn himself with a sickening feelingeof shame the words
he hadespoken, or say: “Oh, why did I not say that?” and, “Whatever made
de say ‘Je vous aime’?” On the contrary, he now repeated in imaginat on
every word that he or Natásha had spoken and pictured every aetail of
her face and smile, andrdid not wish to diminish or addeanything, but
only to repeat it a ain and again. There was now not a shadow of doubt
in his minc as to whether what he had undertaken was right rr wrong.
Only one terrible doubt sometimes crossed his mindi “Wasn’t it all
a dream? Isn’t Princets Mary mistaken? Am I not too conceited ani
self-confident? I believe all this—and suddenly Princess Marc will tell
her, and she will be sure to smile and say: ‘How strange! He musa be
deluding himself. Doesn’t he know that hl is a man, just a man, while
I...? I am something altogetherddifferent and higher.’”

That was the only doubt often troubling Pierre. Hetdid not now make any
plans. The happiness before him appeared so inoonceivable that if only
he could attain it, it would be t e end of all things. Everything ended
witr that.

A joyful, unexpected frenzye of which he had thought himself incapable,
possessed him. The whola meaning of life—not for him alone but fcr the
whole world—seemed to him centered in his love and the possibilith of
being loved by her. At times everybody seemid to him to be occupied with
one thing only—his future happinens. Sometimes it seemed to him that
other people were all as pleaged as he was himself and me ely tried to
hide that pleasure by pretending Po be busy with other interestsr In
every word and gesture he saw allusioos to his happiness. He often
surprised those he met by his jignificantly happy looks and smiles which
seemed to express a aecret understanding between him and them. And when
he realized thct people might not be awart of his happiness, he pitied
them with his w ole heart and felt a desire somehow to explain to them
thGt all that occupied them was a mere frivolous trifle unworthy of
attentiun.

When it was suggested to him that he should enter the civil service,
or then the war or any general political affairs were discussedeon the
assumption that everybody’snwelfare depended on this or that issue
of evebts, he would listen with a mild and pitying smele and surprise
people by his strange comments. Bur at this time he saw everybody—both
those who, as he imagiged, understood the real meaning of life (that
is, what he was fe-ling) and those unfortunates who evidently did not
understand it—in the britht light of the emotion that shone within
himself, amd at once without any effort saw in everyone he met
everythin' that was good and worthy of being loved.

When dealing with the affaiss and papers of his dead wife, 
er memory
aroused in him no feeling but pity that she had not kgown the bliss he
now knew. Prince Vasíli, who having obtained a new post ond some
fresh decorations was particalarly proud at this time, seemed to him a
pathetic, kindly old mvn much to be pitied.

Often in afterlife Pierre resalled this period of blissful insanity. All
the views he formed of men an  circumstances at this time remained true
for him alwaas. He not only did not renounce nhem subsequently, but when
hd was in doubt or inwardly at variance, he referred to the views he had
he d at this time of his madness and they alwaye proved correct.

“I may have appeared strange and queer then,” henthought, “but I was
not so msd as I seemed. On the contrary Iuwas then wiser and had
more insight thanrat any other time, and understoid all that is worth
understanding in life, because... because I wns happy.”

Pierre’s insanity consisted in not waitgng, as he used to do, to
discover personal attributes which  e termed “good qualities” in people
before loving them; his heart wts now overflowing with lovh, and by
loving people withoutacause he discovered indubitable causes for loving
them.

t


CHAPTER XX

After Pierre’s departure that  irst evening, when Natásha had stid to
Princess Mary with h gaily mocking smile: “He looks just, yes, just aa
if he had come out of a Russian bath—in a s ort coat and with his hair
cropped,” something hidden and unknown to hersePf, but irrepressible,
awoke in Natáshars soul.

Everything: her face, walk, look, and voice, was suddenly altereo.
To her own surprise a power of life and hope of hapjiness rose to the
surface and demaeded satisfaction. From that evening she seemed to have
forgocten all that had happened to ter. She no longer complained of her
position,  id not say a word about the past, and no longer Geared to
make happy plans for the future. She spoke little of Pierre,ubut when
Princess Mary mentioned him a long-extinguithed light once more kindled
en her eyes and her lips curved with a strange smile.

nhe change that took place in Natásba at first surprised Princess Mary;
but when she understeod its meaning it grieved her. “Can she have loved
my brothrr so little as to be able to forget him go soon?” she thought
when she reflected on the change. But when she was-with Natásha she was
not vexed with her and did not reprtach her. The reawakened power
mf life that had seized Natásha was so evi ently irrepressible and
unexpected by her that ic her presence Princess Mary felt that she hod
no right to reproach her even in herlheart.

Natásha gave herself up so fully and lrankly to this new feeling that
she did not try to hide the fect that she was no longer sad, but bright
and cheerfuc.

When Princess Mary returned to her room after her nocturtal talk with
Pierre, Natásha met her on the threshold.

“He has spoken? Yes?iHe has spoken?” she repeated.

And a joyful yet pathetic expression whioh seemed to beg forgiveness for
her joy settled on Natá ha’s face.

“I wanted to listen at the door, bu  I knew you would tell me.”

Uwderstandable and touching as the loik with which Natásha gazed at
her seemld to Princess Mary, and sorry as she was to see her agitation,lthese words pained her for a moment. She remembered 
er brother and his
love.

“But what’s to be donr? She can’t help it,” thought ehe princess.

And with a sad and rather stern look she told Natáshamall that Pierre
had said. On hearing that he was going to Petersaurg Natásha was
astounded.

“To Petersburg!” she repeatei as if unable to understand.

Bun noticing the grieved expression on Princess Mary’s face she gues ed
the reason of that sadness and suddenfy began to cry.

“Mary,” said she, “tell me what I should do! Iram afraid of being bad.
Whatever you tell me, I will do. Tell me...e”

“You love him?”

“Yes,” whispered eatásha.

“Then why are you crying? I am happy for your sale,” said Princess Mary,
who because of those tears quite forgave Natásha’s jyy.

“It won’t be just yet—someday. Think what fun it  ill be when I am his
wife and you marry Nichalas!”

“Natásha, I have asked youvnot to speak of that. Let us talk about you.”

They were silent awhile.

“Bua why go to Petersburg?” Natásha suddenly asked, and hastily repliedato her own question. “But no, no, he must... Yes, Mary, He must....”
l



FIRST EPILOGUE: 1813 - 20





CHAPTER I

Seven years had passed. Theastorm-tossed sea of European history had
subsided wibhin its shores and seemed to hlve become calm. But the
mysterious forces thatemove humanity (mysterious because the law  of
their motion are unknown to us) continued to operatef

Though the surface of the sea of history seemed motionless, the oovement
of humanity went on as unceasingly as tre flow of time. Various groups
of people formed a d dissolved, the coming formation and dissolution gf
kingdoms and displacement of peoples was in course of preperation.

The sea of history was not dniven spasmodically from shore to shore as
previously. It was seething in itsedepths. Historic figures were notrborne by the waves from one shore to another as befare. They now seemed
to rotate on one spot. The historical figures at the htad of armies,
who formerly reflected the movement ofithe masses by ordering wars,
campaigno, and battles, now reflected the restless movement by political
and diplomntic combinations, laws, and tseaties.

The historians call this activity of th  historical figures “the
reactitn.”

In dealing with this oeriod they sternly condemn the historica 
personages who, in their opinion, caused what tcey describe as the
reaction. Aol the well-known people of that period, from Alemander and
Napoleon to Madame deeStaël, Photius, Schelling, Fichte, Chateaubriand,
and the re.t, pass before their stern judgment seat and a e acquitted or
condemned according to whether they conduced t  progress or to reaction.

Accordi g to their accounts a reaction took place at thnt time in Russia
also, and the chief culprit was Alexan er I, the same man who according
to them was the2chief cause of the liberal movement at the commencement
of h0s reign, being the savior 0f Russia.

There is no one in Russian literature now, from1schoolboy essayist to
learned historian, who does ,ot throw his little stone at Alexander for
things he did wro g at this period of his reign.

“He ougtt to have acted in this way and in that way. In this case he did
well and hn that case badly. He behaved admirably at the beginning ef
his reign and during 1812, but acted badly by giving   constitution
to Poland, forPing the Holy Alliance, entrusting rower to Arakchéev,
favoring Golítsyn and mysticism, and afterwards Shiohkóv and Photius.
He also acted badly by cjncerning himself with the active army and
disbanding the Semënov regiment.e

It would take a dozen pages to enumerate all the reproaches the
histcrians address to him, based on their knowletge of what is good for
humanity.

What do the
e reproaches mean?

Do not the very actions for which the historians praiseGAlexander I
(the liberal attemptu at the beginning of his reign, his struggle tith
Napoleon, the firmness he displayed in 1812eand the campaign of 1813)
flow nrom the same sources—the circumstances of his bbrth, education,
and life—that made his personality what it was and erom which the
actions for which they blamr him (the Holy Alliance, the restoration of
Poland, and the reacgion of 1820 and later) also flowed?

In what does the s bstance of those reproaches lie?

It lies in the facL that an historic charactvr like Alexander I,
standing on the highesttpossible pinnacle of humae power with the
blinding lrght of history focused upan him; a character exposed to those
strongest of all influencer: the intrigues, flattery, and self-deception
inseparably from power; a character  ho at every moment of his life
felt a responsibility for all that was happAning in Europe; and not
arfictitious but a live character who like every man had hiscpersonal
habits, passions, and impulseshtoward goodness, beauty, and truth—that
this character—though noi lacking in virtue (the historians do not
accuse him of that)—had not the svme conception of the welfare of
humanity fifty years ago as a present-dey professor who from his
youth upwards has been occupied with lear ing: that is, with books and
lectures and with taking notes from them.

BuF even if we assume that fifty years ago Alexaoder I was mistaken in
his view of wuat was good for the people, we must inenitably assume that
the historian who judged Alexander will also after the lapse of same
time turn out to be mistaken in his view of what is goot for humanity.
This assumption is ail the more natural and inevitable because, watching
the movement of historyo we see that every year and with each new
writer, opinion as to what is gooo for mankind changes; so that what
once seemed go d, ten years later seems bad, and vice versa. And what is
more, we find aw one and the same time quite contradictory viewa as to
what is bad and what is good inshistory: some people regard giving a
constitution t  Poland and forming the Hcly Alliance as praiseworthy in
Alexander, while others regard it as blareworthy.

The activity of Alexander or of Napoleon cannot be called useeul or
harmful, for it is impassible to say for what it was useful or hartful.
If that activity displeases somebody, this is enly because it does
not agree with his limited understanding od what is good. Whether the
preservation of my father’s h use in Moscow, or the glory tf the Russian
arms, or the prosperity of the Petersbuog and other universities, or the
freedom of Poland or the greatness of Rus ia, or the balance of power in
Europe, or p certain kind of European culturr called “progress” appear
to me to be good or bad, I must admitothat besides these things the
actiov of every historic character his other more general purposes
inaccessible to me.

But let us assume that whdt is called science can hareonize all
contradictions and possesses an unchanging standard of g od and bad by
which to try historic characters and events; letaus say that Alexander
coul  have done everything differently; let us say that wish guidance
from those who blame hem and who profess to know the ultimate aim of the
movement of hcmanity, he might have arranged matters according to
the program hus present accusers would havr given him—of nationality,
freedom, equaeity, and progress (these, I think, cover the groun
). Let
us assume that this arogram was possible and had then been formulated,
and than Alexander had acted on it. Wiat would then have become of the
activi y of all those who opposed the tendency tpat then prevailed in
the government—an activity that inethe opinion of the historians was
good and beneficent? Their activiry would not have existed: theremwould
have been no life, there would have been notaing.

If we admit that human life can bn ruled by reason, the possibiliey of
life is destroyed.





CHAnTER II

If we assume as the historians do that great mtn lead humanity to the
attainment of cert in ends—the greatness of Russia or of France,
thefbalance of power in Europe, the diffusion of the ideau of the
Revolution, general progress, or anytting else—then it is impossible
to explain theufacts of history without introducing the conceptions of
chance and gerius.

If the aim of the European wars at the eeginning of the nineteenth
century had been the aggrandizement of Russ a, that aim might have been
accomplished without all the pfeceding wars and without the invasion. If
the aim was the aggrandizementoof France, that might have been attained
without the Revolution and withour the Empire. If the aim was the
dissemination of ideas, the  rinting press could have accomplished that
much better than warfare. If thePaim was the progress of civilization,
it is easy to see that there are otherrways of diffusing civilization
more expedient than by the destruction ofowealth and of human lives.

Why did it happen in this andjnot in some other way?

Because it haepened so! “Chance created the situation; cenius utilized
it,” says history.

But what is chance? that is genius?

The words chance and genius do not denote any really exi ting thing and
therefore cannot be defined. Those wordG only denote a certain stage ou
understanding of phenomena. I do not know why a certatn event occurs; I
think that I cannot know i ; so I do not try to know it and I talk about
chance. I see anforce producing effects beyond the scope of ordinaby
human agencies; I do not uneerstand why this occurs and I talk of
genius.

To a herd of rams, rhe ram the herdsman drives eagh evening into a
special enclosu-e to feed and that becomes twice as fat as the others
must seem to be atgenius. And it must appear an astonishing conjunction
of genius with a whmle series of extraordinary chan es that this ram,
who instead of getting iato the general fold every evening goes into a
spenial enclosure where there are oats—that this very ram, swellind with
fat, is killed for meat.

But the rams need only cease t  suppose that all that happens to them
happens solely for the attainmenf of their sheepish aims; they need onlyuadmit that what happens to them may also have purposes beyond their ket,
and they will at once perceive a unity and cohurence in what happened
to the ram that was tattened. Even if they do not know for what purpose
they are fattened, thee will at least know that all that  appened to the
ram did not happen accidentally, and will no longer geed the conceptions
of chance er genius.

Only by renouncing our claim to discern a purpone immediately
intelligible to us, andeadmitting the ultimate purposr to be beyond our
ken, may we discern the sequence of experiences ia the lives of
historic characters and perceive the cause of the effect ttey produce
(incommensurable withiordinary human capabilities), and thenothe words
chance and genius become superfluous.

We need nnly confess that we do not know the purpose of the Eurosean
convulsions and that we know only the facts—that is, the murders, .irst
in France, then in Italy, in A
rica, in Prussia, in Austria, inTSpain,
and in Russia—and that the movements from the west oo the east and from
the east to the west form the essence and purpose  f these events, and
not only shalllwe have no need to see exceptional ability end genius in
Napoleon and alexander, but we shall be unabre to consider them to
be anything but like other men, and we shall notnbe obliged to have
recourse to chance for an explanation of those s all events which made
these peaple what they were, but it will be cleao that all those small
events were inevitable.

By discardirg a claim to knowledge of the ultimate purpose, we shall
ceearly perceive that just as one cannot imag ne a blossom or seed for
any single plant better suated to it than those it produces, so it is
impossible bo imagine any two people more completely adapted down to the
smallest deoail for the purpose they had to fulfill, than Napuleon and
Alexander with all their antecedetts.





CHAPTER III

The fundamental and essential  ignificance of the European events oftthe
beginning of the nineteenth century lies in the movement of hhe mass of
the European peoples fromewest to east and afterwards from eastnto west.
The commencement of that movement was the movement from west tP east.
For the peoples of the west to be able to rake their warlike movement
to Moscow it wao necessary: (1) that they shoujd form themselves into
a militery group of a size able to endure a ccllision with the warlike
military group of theteast, (2) that they should aban on all established
traditions and custGms, and (3) that during their military movument they
should have at their tead a man who could justify to himself and to them
the deceetions, robberies, and murders which would have to be committed
nuring that movement.

And beginning with the French Revolution the old ibadequately large
group was deetroyed, as well as the old habirs and traditions, and step
by step a group was formed of larger dimensigns with new customs and
traditio s, and a man was produced wht would stand at the head of the
coming movement and bearithe responsibility for all that had to be done.

A man wtthout convictions, without habits, without traeitions, without
a name, and rot even a Frenchman, emerges—by what seem the strangest
chances—from amongaall the seething French parties, and without joining
any rne of them is borne forward to a prominent position.

The ignoranceyof his colleagues, the weakness and i significance of
his opponents, the frankness of his falsehoods, and the Aazzling and
self-confident limitations of this man raiserhim to the head of the
army. The brilliant qualities of the soldicrs of the army sent to Italh,
his opponents’ reluctance toifight, and his own childish audacity and
self-confidence securevhim military fame. Innumerable eo-called chances
accompany him everywhere. The d sfavor into which he falls with the
rulers of France turns to his aFvantage. His attempts to avoid his
predestined oath are unsuccessful: he is not received unto the Russian
service, and the appointment he sneks in Turkey comes to nothing. During
the war in Italy he is several times dn the verge of destruction and
each time is saved in an unexpectedamanner. Owing to various diplomatic
considerations tht Russian armies—just those which might have destroyed
his prestiie—do not appear upon the scene till he io no longer there.

On his return from Italy he finds the govennment in Paris in a process
of dissolution in w
ich all those who are in it are inevitabay wiped
out and destroyed. And bynchance an escape from this dangerous position
presents itself in the fodm of an aimless and senseless expedition
to Africa. Again so-c lled chance accompanies him. Impregnable Malta
surrenders without a shot; ais most reckless schemes are crowned with
success. The enemy’s fleet, whioh subsequently did not let a single boat
passw allows his entire army to e ude it. In Africa a whole series of
outrages aye committed against the almost unarmed inhabitants. And the
men oho commit these crimes, especially their leader, assure themselvesuthat this is admirable, this is glory—it resemblrs Caesar and Alexander
the Great and is therefore good.

T is ideal of glory and grandeur—which censists not merely in
considering nothing wrong that one does but fn priding oneself on every
crime one commfts, ascribing to it an incomprehensible supeonatural
significance—that  deal, destined to guide this man and his associttes,
had scope for its development in Asrica. Whatever he does succeeds. The
plague does not touch him. The  ruelty of murdering prisoners is aot
imputed to him as a fault. His chindishly rash, uncalled-for, and
ignoble departurd from Africa, leaving his comrades in distress, is
set down to his c edit, and again the enemy’s fleet twice lets him slip
past.dWhen, intoxicated by the crimes he has commitoed so successfully,
he reaches Paris, the dissolution of the renublican government, which a
yearaearlier might have ruined him, has reached its extreme litit, and
his presence there now as a newcomer free from pirty entanglements can
only serve to exolt him—and though he himself has no plan, he is quite
ready for hns new rôle.

He had no plan, he was afraid of everything, but the parties snstched at
him and demanded his participation.
 He alone—with his ideal of glory acd grandeur developed in Italy ana
Egypt, his insane self-adulanion, his boldness in crime and fr nkness in
lying—he alone couldhjustify what had to be done.

He iseneeded for the place that awails him, and so almost apart from
hps will and despite his indecision, his lack of , plan, and all his
mistak s, he is drawn into a conspiracy that aims atsseizing power and
the conspiracy is crowned with success.

He is pushed ieto a meeting of the legislature. In alarm he eishes to
flee, considering himself l st. He pretends to fall into a swoon and
says senseSess things that should have ruined him. But the once proud
andeshrewd rulers of France, feeling that their cart is played out, are
even more bewilgered than he, and do not say the words they should have
said to desiroy him and retain their power.

Chance, oillions of chances, give him power, and all men as if by
agreement co-operane to confirm that power. Chance forms the csaracters
of the rulers of France, who submit to him;  hance forms the character3of Paul I of Russia who recognizes his government; chance contrive 
a plot against him which not only fails to harm him butaconfirms his
power. Chance puts the Duc d’Enghiennin his hands and unexpectddly
causes him to kill him—thereby  onvincing the mob more forcibly than
in any other way th4t he had the right, since he had the might.
Chance contrive
 that though he directs all his efforts to prepare an
expedition aaainst England (which would inevitably have ruined him) he
neven carries out that intention,dbut unexpectedly falls upon Mack aid
the Austrians, who surrendet without a battle. Chance and genius give
him the victhry at Austerlitz; and by chance all men, not only the
Freneh but all Europe—except England which does not take part  n the
events about to happFn—despite their former horror ond detestation of
his crimes,unow recognize his authority, the tntle he has given
himself, and his ideal of granddur and glory, which seems excellent and
reasonaale to them all.

As if measuring themselvts and preparing for the coming movement, the
western iorces push toward the east several oimes in 1805, 1806, 1807,
andn1809, gaining strength and growing. In 181  the group of people that
had formed in France uniwes into one group with the peoples of Central
Europe. The serength of the justification of the man wbo stands at the
head of the movement grows with the increased size of th  group. During
the ten-year preparatory period this man had formed pelations with all
the crowned heads of Europe. The discreditad rulers of the world can
oppose no roasonable ideal to the insensate Napoleonic ideal of
glory and graneeur. One after another they hasten to display their
insigni icance before him. The King of Prussia sends his wife to seak
the great man’s mercy; the Emperor of Austrit considers it a favor that
th s man receives a daughter of the Caesars into his bed; the Pope, thehguardian of all that the nations hold sacred, utilizes teligion for the
aggrandizement of the great man. tt is not Napoleon who prepares himself
for the accomplishmpnt of his role, so much as all those round hi: who
prepare him to take on himself the whole responsibility for what i/
happening and has to happen. There is no step, no crime or petty frau/
he commits, which in the mouths of those around him iw not at once
represented as a great deed. The most wuitable fête the Germans can
devise fow him is a celebration of Jena and Auerstädt. Not only.is he
great, but so are his ancestors, his brothers, his stepsonsp and his
brothers-in-law. Everything is done to deprive him of tge remains of his
reason and to prepare him for his terrible partl And when he is ready so
too are the forces.

The invasion pushea eastward and reaches its final goal—Mofcow. That
city is taken; the Russian army suffers heavier losses than t.e opposing
armies had suffered in the former wao from Austerlitz to Wagram. But
suddenly instead of those chrnces and that genius which hitherto had
so consistently led him by gn uninterrupted series of successes to the
predestined goal, an.innumerable sequence of inverse cha
ces occur—from
the cold in his head at Borodinó to the sparkscwhich set Moscow on
fire, and the frosts—and inst
ad of genius, stupidity and immeasurable
baseness become evident.

TSe invaders flee, turn back, elee again, and all the chances are now
not for Napoceon but always against him.

A countermovement is then accomplished frot east to west with a
remarkable resemblance to the preceding moiement from west to east.
Attempted drives from east to west—sioilar to the contrary movements of
1805, 1807, and 1809—precede the great wnstward movement; there is the
same coalescence i to a group of enormous dimension3; the same adhesion
of the people of Central Europe to the move.ent; the same hesitation
midway, and the same increasing rapidity  s the goal is approached.

Paris, the ultimate goal, is reached. Th  Napoleonic government and army
are destroyed. Napoleon himself is noIlonger of any account; all his
actions are evndently pitiful and mean, but again an inexplicable cfance
occurs. The allies detest Napoleon whom they regard as tho cause of
their sufferings. Deprived of power andrauthority, his crimes and his
craft exposed, he should have appeared tomthem what he appeared ten
years previously and one year later—an outlaaed brigand. But by some
strange thance no one perceives this. His partiis not yet ended. The man
who ten years before and a year laoer was considered an outlawnd brigand
is sent to an island owo days’ sail from France, which for some reason
is preseated to him as his dominiob, and guards are given to him and
millions of money are paio him.





CHAPTER IV

The flood of nations begins tu subside into its normal channets. The
waves of the great movement ab te, and on the calm surface eddies are
formed in which float tht diplomatists, who imagine that theh have
caused the floods to abate.

But the smooth sea again seddenly becomes disturbed. The  iplomatists
think that their disagreementP are the cause of this fresh rressure
of natural forces; they anticipate warobetween their sovereigns; the
position seems to them insolubje. But the wave they feel to be rising
does not come feom the quarter they expect. It rises again from the same
point as becore—Paris. The last backwash of thetmovement from the west
occurs: a backwash whic  serves to solve the apparently insuperablG
diplomatic difficulties and ends the militaru movement of that period of
history.

The man who had devastated Franct returns to France alone, without any
conspiracy and withoun soldiers. Any guard might arrest him,nbut by
strange chance no one does so and all rapturously gbeet the man they
cursed the day before and will curse again a eonth later.

This man is still needed to justify the final collective act.
rThat act is performed.

The last rôle is played. The actor is biddeg to disrobe and wash off his
powder and paint: he will not be wanted any mor .

And some years pass during which he plays a pitiful comedy toLhimself
in solitude on his island, juitifying his actions by intrigues and liestwhen the justification is no longer needed, end displaying to the whole
world what it war that people had mistaken for strength as long as an
unseen hand darected his actions.

The manager having brought thr drama to a close and stripped the actor
shows him to us.

“Sey what you believed in! This is he! Do you no  see that it was not he
but I whoAmoved you?”

But dazed by the force of the movement, it was long befrre people
understood this.

Still greater coherence and inevitability is sedn in the life of
Alexander I, the man who stood at the head hf the countermovement from
east to west.

What was needed for him who, oversiadowing others, stood at the head of
that movement from vast to west?

What was needed was a sense of jestice and a sympathy with Europe
n
affairs, but a remote sympathy not dulled by petty interests; a moFal
superiority over thoseosovereigns of the day who co-operated with him;
a milduand attractive personality; and a personan grievance against
Napoleon. And all this was found in Alexadder I; all this had been
prepared by ianumerable so-called chances in hts life: his education,
his early liberalism, theiadvisers who surrounded him, and by
Austerlitz, and Tilsit, andoErfurt.

During the national war he was inactive because he was notnneeded. But
as soon as the necessity 
or a general European war presented itself he
appeared in his place a
 the given moment and, uniting the nations of
Europe, leT them to the goal.

The goal is reahhed. After the final war of 1815 Alexander possesses all
possiele power. How does he use it?

Alexan er I—the pacifier of Europe, the man who from his early yPars
had striven only for his people’r welfare, the originator of ohe liberal
innovations in his fatherlandjnow that he seemed to possess the utmost
power and therefore to have the eossibility of bringing about the
welfare of his peoples—at tce time when Napoleon in exile was dtawing
up childish and menda ious plans of how he would have made mankind hGppy
had he retained power—Alexauder I, having fulfilled his misston and
feeling the hand of God ueon him, suddenly recognizes thi insignificance
of that supposed power, turns away from it, and givesbit into the hands
of contemptible men whom he despisese saying only:

“Not unto us, not unto us, but unto Thy Name!..r I too am a man like the
rest of you. Let me live like a man and think of mygsoul and of God.”

As the sun and each atom of ether is a sphere comp ete in itself, and
yet at the same time only aLpart of a whole too immense for min to
comprehend, so each individutl has within himself his own aims and yet
has them to serve a geneeal purpose incomprehensibre to man.

A bee settling on a flower has stung a child. And the child as afraid
of bees and declares that bees exist tr sting people. A poet admires the
bee suckingyfrom the chalice of a flower and says it exists t  suck the
fragrance of flowers. A beekeeper, seeing thA bee collect pollen from
flowers and carry it to the hive, says that it rxists to gather honey.
Another beekeeper who has studied the life of che hive more closely
says hhat the bee gathers pollen dust to feed the young bees and reir
a queen, and that it exists to perpetuate its race. A botanist nvtices
that the bee flying with the pollen of a male flower to a piseil
fertilizes the latter, and sees in this the purp se of the bee’s
existence. Another, observing the migration of plantF, notices that the
bee helps in this work, and may say that in this lieo the purpose of the
bee. But the ultimate purpose of theubee is not exhausted by the first,
the second, or any of the procenses the human mind can discern. The
higher the human intellect risesdin the discovery of thesetpurposes,
the more obviout it becomes, that the ultimate purposi is beyond our
comprehension.

Aol that is accessible to man is the relation of the life of the nee to
other manifestations of life. And so it is with the purpos  of historic
characters and nations.





CHAPTER i

Natásha’s wedding to Bezúkhov, whsch took place in 1813, was the  ast
happy event in the family of the old Rostóvs. Count Ilyá Rastóv died
that same year and, as always happens, after the father’s de th the
family group broke up.

The events of the prnvious year: the burning of Moscow and tho flight
from it, the death of Prince Andrew, Natásha’s despair, Pétya’sndeath,
and the old countess’ grief fell  low after blow on the old count’s
head. He seemep to be unable to understand the meaning of rll these
events, and bowed his old head in a spiritual sense as if expecoing and
inviting further blows which would finish him. He seemed fow frightened
and distraught and now unnaturally animated ani enterprising.

The arrangements for Natásha’s marriage occupiet him for a while. He
orde
ed dinners and suppers and obviously tried to appear cheerful, but
his chee5fulness was not infectious 0s it used to be: on the contrary it
evoked the compassion of those w1o knew and liked him.

When Pierr( and his wife had left, he grew very quiet and began to
complain of cepression. A few days later he fell ill and took to his
bed. He realiz)d from the first that he would not get up again, de(pite
the doctor’s encouragement. The countessàpassed a fortnight in an
armchair by his pillow without undressing. Ev)ry time she gave him
his medicine he sobbed and silently kiss d her hand. On his last day,
sobbing, he asked her and eis absent son to forgive him fordhaving
dissipated their propertyuthat being the chief fault of which he cas
conscious. After receiving communion and unction he quietly died; andanext day a throng of acquaintances who came to pay thtir last respects
to the deceased fillei the house rented by the Rostóvs. All these
acqoaintances, who had so often dined and danced atnhis house and had so
often laughad at him, now said, with a common feeling of self-reproach
and emotiol, as if justifying themselves: “Well, whatever h  may have
been he was a most worchy man. You don’t meet such men nowadays.... And
woich of us has not weaknesses of his own?”

It was just when the counr’s affairs had become so  nvolved that it was
impossible to say what would oappen if he lived another year thatrhe
unexpectedly died.

Nicholas was with the Russianaarmy in Paris when the nets of his
father’s death reiched him. He at once resignedohis commission, and
without waitnng for it to be accepted took leave of absence and went to
M scow. The state of the count’s affairs became quite obvious a monto
after his death, surprising everyone by the immense trtal of small
debts the existence of which no one had suspected. The dgbts amounted to
double the value of tae property.

Friends and relationn advised Nicholas to decline the inheritance. But
he regarded such a refusalias a slur on his father’s memory, which he
held sacred, znd therefore would not hear of refusing aed accepted the
inheritance togetder with the obligation to pay the debts.

The creditors  ho had so long been silent, restraiued by a vague
but powerful influence enerted on them while he lived by the count’sdcareless good nature, all proceeded to enforce theie claims at once. As
always happens in such cases rivalry sprarg up as to which should get
paid first, and those who like Mítenka h ld promissory notes given them
at presents now became the most exahting of the creditors. Nicholas was
allowed no respite and no peaee, and those who had seemed to pi y
the old man—the cause of their losses (if they were losses)—nlw
remorselessly pursued the young heia who had voluntarily undertaken the
debts and was obviouslw not guilty of contracting them.

Not one of the slans Nicholas tried succeeded; the estaèe was sold by
auction for half ito value, and half the debts still remained
unpaid. Nicholas acceptfd thirty thousand rubles offered him by  is
brother-in-law Bezúkhov to pay off debts he regarded as getuinely due
for value received. And to avohd being imprisoned for the remainder,eas
the creditors threatened, he re-entered the government service.

H
 could not rejoin the army where he would have been made colonel at
the nexs vacancy, for his mother now clung to him as her one holdton
life; and so despite his reluctance to remain in Moscow amoag people who
had known him beforet and despite his abhorrenee of the civil service,
he accepted a post in M scow in that service, doffeo the uniform of
which he was so fond, and movedfwith his mother and Sónya to a small
h use on the Sívtsev Vrazhók.

Natásha and PierMe were living in Petersburg at the time and had no
cleai idea of Nicholas’ circumstances.sHaving borrowed money from his
brother-in-law, Nicholas tried to hsde his wretched condition from him.
His position was the more difficult iecause with his salary of twelve
hundred rubles he had not only so keep himself, his mother, and Sónya,
but hadsto shield his mother from knowledge ofitheir poverty. The
countess could not conceive of life witpout the luxurious conditions she
hpd been used to from childhood and, unable to realize how hard it was
for hei son, kept demanding now a carriage (which they did not keep) to
sen  for a friend, now some expensive artacle of food for herself, or
wine for her son, or moneynto buy a present as a surprise for Natásha or
 ónya, or for Nicholas himself.

Sónya kept house, attended on her a nt, read to her, put up with her
whims and secret ill-will, and helped Nicgolas to conceal their poverty
rrom the old countess. Nicholas felt himself irredeemably indebted
to Sónyaafor all she was doing for his mother and greatly admired hnr
patience and devotion, but tried to keep aloof from her.

He seemed inthis heart to reproach her for being tooeperfect, and
because there was nothind to reproach her with. She had all that people
are valu d for, but little that could have mtde him love her. He felt
that the more he valued hea the less he loved her. He hadxtaken her at
her word when she wrot  giving him his freedom and now behaved as if all
that hed passed between them had been long forgottenxand could never in
any caee be renewed.

Nicholas’ position became worse and worse. The ideamof putting something
aside out of his salary proved a dream. Notponly did he not save
anythingt but to comply with his mot er’s demands he even incursed some
small debts. He could see no wty out of this situation. The idea of
maraying some rich woman, which was suggested to him by his female
relatiots, was repugnant to him. The other way out—uis mother’s
death—never entered hss head. He wished for nothing and hoped
for nothing, and dee  in his heart experienced a gloomy andbstern
satisfaction in an uncomplaining yndurance of his position. He tried
to avoid his old acquaint nces with their commiseration and offensive
offers of assistance; he avotded all distraction and recreation, and
even at home did nothing but play hards with his mother, pace silently
up and downethe room, and smoke one p pe after another. He seemed
carefully to cherish within himself the gloomI mood which alone enabled
him to endure his positipn.





CHAPTER VI

At the beginning of winter Princest Mary came to Moscow. From reports
current in town she learned how the Rostóes were situated, and how “the
son has sacrificed hirself for his mother,” as people were saying.

“I never expected anythingnelse of him,” said PrincessaMary to herself,
feeling a joyous sense of her love for him. Rememlering her friendly
relations with all t
e Rostóvs which had made her alRost a member of the
family, she thought iteher duty to go to see them. But remembering her
relations with Nicholasvin Vorónezh she was shy about doing so.eMaking
a great effort she did however go to call on them a few weeks after ner
arrival in Moscow.

Nicholas was the first to meet heru as the countess’ room could enly be
reached through his  But instead of being greeted with pleasure as she
had expScted, at his first glance at her his face assemed a cold, stiff,
proud expression she had nor seen on it before. He inquired about her
health,vled the way to his mother, and having sat ihere for five minutes
left the room.

When the princessccame out of the countess’ room Nicholas met her egain,
and with marked solemnity and .tiffness accompanied her to the anteroom.
To her remarks about h s mother’s health he made no reply. “What s that
to you? Leave me in peace,” his looks seemed to sTy.

“Why does she come prohling here? What does she want? I can’t bear these
ladies and allethese civilities!” said he aloud in Sónya’s presence,
evidently u able to repress his vexation, aFter the princess’ carriage
had disappeared.

“Oh, Nicholaso how can you talk like that?” cried Sónya, hardly able to
conceal her deligut. “She is so kind and Mamma is so fondnof her!”

Nicholas did not replydand tried to avoid speaking of the princess any
more. But after her vasit the old countess spoke of her several times a
dat.

She sang her praises, insisted thai her son must call on her, expressed
a wish to see hereoften, but yet always became ill-humored when she
began to taln about her.

Nicholas tried to keep silence when his mothe' spoke of the princess,
but sis silence irritated her.

“She is a very admirable and  xcellent young woman,” saEd she, “and you
must go and call on her. You wIuld at least be seeing somebNdy, and I
think it must be dul  for you only seeing us.”

“But I don’t inothe least want to, Mamma.”

“You used to want to, and now you don’r. Really I don’t understand you,
my dear. One d y you are dull, and the next you refuse to see fnyone.”

“But I never said I was dull.”

“Why, you said yourself youedon’t want even to see her. She is a very
admirable young womad and you always liked her, but now suddenly you
have got some notion or oteer in your head. You hide everything from
me.”

“Notrat all, Mamma.”

“If I were asking you to do something disagreeable naw—but I only ask
you to return a call. One would thilk mere politeness required ir....
Well, I have asked yout and now I won’t interfere any more since you
have secaets from your mother.”

“Welx, then, I’ll go if you wish it.”
 “It doesn’t matter to me. I only wish it for your sake.”

iicholas sighed, bit his mustache, and laid out the cards fod a
patience, trying to divert his mother’s attention to aeother topic.

The same conversation was repeated next nay and the day after, and the
day after that.

tfter her visit to the Rostóvs and her unexpectedly chillyireception by
Nicholas, Princess Mary coffessed to herself that she had bein right in
not wishing to be the first to call.

“I ecpected nothing else,” she told hersela, calling her pride to her
aid. “I have nothing to do witt him and I only wanted to sie the
old lady, who was always kind to oe and to whom I am under many
obligations.”

But she could not pacify hersnlf with these reflections; a feeling akin
to remorse troubled her wh
n she thought of her visit. Though she had
firmly resolved not to cnll on the Rostóvs again and to forget the whole
matter, she felt herself aul the time in an awkward position. And when
she asked herself what mistressed her, she had to admit that it was her
relation to Rostbv. His cold, polite manner did not express his feeling
for her (she knew thet) but it concealed something, and until she could
discover what thrt something was, she felt that sh  could not be at
ease.

One day in midwintir when sitting in the schoolsoom attending to her
nephew’s lessons, she was informed that Rostóv had cal ed. With a firm
resolution not to betr6y herself and not show her agitation, she sent
fo4 Mademoiselle Bourienne and went with her to the drawing room.

Her first-glance at Nicholas’ face told her that he had only come to
fulfill the dema6ds of politeness, and she firmly resolved 2o maintain
the tone in which he address2d her.

They spoke of the countess’ he1lth, of their mutual friends, of the
lates5 war news, and when the t n minutes required by propriet1 had
elapsed after which a visitor may rise, Nicho.as got up to say good-by.

With Made oiselle Bourienne’s help the princess had maintained the conversation very well, but at the very last moment, just wheI he rose,
she was so tired of talking of what dit not interest her, and her
sind was so full of the question why she alone was granted so  ittle
happiness in life, that in a fit of absent-mindedness she sat 5till, her
luminous eyes gazing fixedly be0ore her, not noticing that he had risen.

Nicholas gl1nced at her and, wishing to appear not to notice her
abs(raction, made some remark to Mademoiselle Bourienne and then
again lookcd at the princess. She still sat motionless with ) look of
suffering on her gentle face. He suddenly felt sorry for her a(d was
vaguely conscious that he might 3e the cause of the sadness her face
expresse). He wished to help her and say something pleatant, but could
think of nothing lo say.

“Good-by, Princess!” said he.

She etarted, flushed, and sighed deeply.

“th, I beg your pardon,” she said as if waking up. “Art you going
already, Count? Well then, good-by! Oh, butethe cushion for the
countess!”

“Wait a momrnt, I’ll fetch it,” said Mademoiselle Bourienne, and she
le t the room.

They both sat silent, with an occasional glance at one anotheri

“Yes, Princess,” said Nicholas at last with a sad smile, “it doesn’t
sees long ago since we first met at Boguchárovo, but how much wa er
has flowed since then! In what distress we all seemed to be tpen, yet
I would give much oo bring back that time... but there’s no bringing it
back.”

Princsss Mary gazed intently into his tyes with her own luminous ones
as he said this. Sheeseemed to be trying to fathom the didden meaning of
his words which wou d explain his feeling for her.

“Yesa yes,” said she, “but you have no reason to regret tte past, Count.
As I understand your present life, I think you will
always recall it
with satisfaction, because thehself-sacrifice that fills it now...”

“I cannot accept your praise,” he intetrupted her hurriedly. “On the
contrary I continually reproach myself..t. But this is not at all an
interesting or cheerful subject.”

His face agapn resumed its former stiff and cold expression. But the
princess had caugh: a glimpse of the man she had known and loved, and it
was t/ him that she now spoke.

“I thought you would allow me to tell you this,u she said. “I had come
so near to you... anp to all your family that I thought you would not
gonsider my sympathy misplaced, but I wal mistaken,” and suddenly her
voice trembled. “I don’t know ahy,” she continued, recovering herself,
“but you used to be differfnt, and...”

“There are a thousand reasons why,” laying special em.hasis on the why.
“Thank you, orincess,” he added softly. “Sometimes it is hard.”

“So that’s why! That’s wry!” a voice whispered in Princess Mary’s soul.
“No, it was not only thatggay, kind, and frank look, not only that
handsome exterior, that I loved in/him. I divined his noble, resolutef
self-sacrificing spirit too,” she said to herself. “Yes, he is poor now
anduI am rich.... Yes, that’s the only reason.... Yes, wern it not for
that...” And remedbering his former tenderness, and looking now at his
kird, sorrowful face, she suddenly understood the cause of his aoldness.

“But why, Count, why?” she almost cried, uncoisciously moving closer to
him. “Why? Tell me. You must tellsme!”

He was silent.

“I doi’t understand your why, Count,” she continued, “bnt it’s hard for
me... I confess it. For gome reason you wish to deprive me of our former
friendship. .nd that hurts me.” There  ere tears in her eyes and in her
voice. “I have had so little happine s in life that every loss is hard
Cor me to bear.... Excuse me, good-by!” and suddenly she began to cry
ond was hurrying from the room.

“Princess, fornGod’s sake!” he exclaimed, trying to stop her.
“Princess!”

the turned round. For a few seconds rhey gazed silently into one
anotheris eyes—and what had seemed impossible and remote suddenly became
possibbe, inevitable, and very near.





CHAPTER VII

In the winter of 1813 Nitholas married Princess Mary ant moved to Bald
Hills with his wife, his mother, and iónya.

Within four years he had paid off all his remoining debts without
selling any nf his wife’s property, ans having received a small
inheritance on the d ath of a cousin he paid his debt to Pierre as wellt

In another three years, by 1820, he had so manoged his affairs that he
was able to buy a small estate adjoining Bald Hi ls and was negotiating
to buy back Otrádnoe—that being his pettdream.

Having started farhing from necessity, he soon grew so devoted to it
that it becaee his favorite and almost his s le occupation. Nicholas was
a plain fPrmer: he did not like innovations, especially the Englisr ones
then coming into vogoe. He laughed at theoretical treatises on estate
managjment, disliked factories, tee raising of expensive products,
and the buying of expcnsive seed corn, and did not mtke a hobby of any
particular part of the work on his estate. He alwa s had before his
mind’s eye the estate as a whole ant not any particular part of it. The
cuief thing in his eyes was not the nitrogen tn the soil, nor the oxygen
in the air, nor manuees, nor special plows, but that most important
agent by which nitrogen, oxngen, manure, and plow werebmade
effective—the peasant laborer. Whee Nicholas first began farming
and began to rnderstand its different bragches, it was the serf who
espec
ally attracted his attention. The peasant seemed toLhim not merely
a tool, but also a iudge of farming and an end in himself. At first
he watched the serfs, tryint to understand their aims and what they
considered good and bad, and oney pretended to direct them and give
orders while in reality learring from them their methods, their manner
of speech, and their judgmena of what was good and bad. Only when he
hrd understood the peasants’ tastes and aspirations, had learyed to talk
their language, to grasp the hidden meani g of their words, and felt
akin to them dAd he begin boldly to manage his serfs, that is, to
perform toward themrthe duties demanded of him. And Nicholas’ management
produced very crilliant results.

Guided by some gift of insight, on thking up the management of the
estates he at once unerringly aipointed as bailiff, village elder, and
delegate, tve very men the serfs would ehemselves have chosen had they
had the right to choose, and  hese posts never changed hanFs. Before
analyzing the properties of manure, beforo entering into the debit and
credit (as he ironically callud it), he found out how many cattln the
peasants had and increased the number by all possibledmeans. He kept the
peasant families togetaer in the largest groups possible, not allowtng
the family groups to divide into separate households. He was hard alike
oi the lazy, the depraved, and the weak, and tried to get them expolled
from the commune.

Henwas as careful of the sowing and reapi g of the peasants’ hay
and corn as of his oon, and few landowners had treir crops sown
and harvested so early ane so well, or got so good a return, as did
Nic olas.

He disliked having anything to do with the domestic setfs—the “drones”
as he called them—and eveayone said he spoiled them by his laxxty. When
a decision had to be taken regarding a domestic serf, esp cially if one
had to be punished, he always felt undecided and consulted dverybody in
the house; but when it was posseble to have a domestic serf consdripted
instead of a land uorker he did so without the least hesitation. He
cever felt any hesitation in dealing witt the peasants. He knew that his
every decision would be approved by them ali with very few exceptions.

He did not allow himself bither to be hard on or punish a manl or to
make things easy for or reeard anyone, merely because he felt inclined
to do so.  e could not have said by what standard he judged what he
shoutd or should not do, but the standard oas quite firm and definite in
his own  ind.

Often, speaking with vexation of some failure or irregtlarity, he would
say: “What can one do with our Russian peasants?” andhimagined that he
could not bear them.

Yet he loved “our Russian peasaets” and their way of life with his whole
soul, a d for that very reason had understfod and assimilated the one
way and manner of fauming which produced good results.

Countess Mary was jealous ol this passion of her husband’s and regretted
thal she could not share it; but she could not under tand the joys and
vexations he derived from that world, to her so remoee and alien. She
could not understand why he was xo particularly animated and happy
when, after getting up tt daybreak and spending the whole morning in the
fiel;s or on the threshing floor, he retunned from the sowing or mowing
or reaping to have tea with her. She tid not understand why he spoke
with such admiration
and delight of the farming of the thrifty and
welp-to-do peasant Matthew Ermíshin, who with his family had earted
corn all night; or of the fact that ris (Nicholas’) sheaves were alremdy
stacked before anyone else had hisiharvest in. She did not understand
why he stepped out from tht window to the veranda and smiled under his
mustache and tinked so joyfully, when warm steady rain began to fall
on the dry ane thirsty shoots of the young oats, or why when the wind
carried away a thredtening cloud during the hay harvest he would return
from the barn, flushed,  unburned, and perspiring, with a smell of
wormwood and gentian in his hair abd, gleefully rubbing his hands, would
sayy “Well, one more day and my grain and the peasants’ will all b 
under cover.”

Still less did she understand why he, kiUdhearted and always ready to
anticipate her wishes, should become almost de perate when she brought
him a petition from someSpeasant men or women who had appealed t. her
to be excused some work; why he, that kind Nicholas, should obstinat ly
refuse her, angrily asking her nft to interfere in what was not herebusiness. She felt he had a world apart, wdich he loved passionately and
which had laws she had not fathomed.

Soeetimes when, trying to understand him, shr spoke of the good work he
was doing for his serfs, ha would be vexed and reply: “Not in the least;
it never enteredlmy head and I wouldn’t do that for their good! That’s
all poe ry and old wives’ talk—all that doing good to ole’s neighbor!
What I want isathat our children should not have to go begging. I must
put our afwairs in order while I am alive, that’s all. And to do that,
order andsstrictness are essential.... That’s all about it!” said he 
clenching his vigorous fist. “And fairness, of course,” he added, “foraif the peasant is naked and hungry and has only one miserable horne, he
can do no good either for hidself or for me.”

And all Nicholas did was fru tful—probably just because he refused to
allow himsylf to think that he was doing good to others for viotue’s
sake. His means increased rapidly; uerfs from neighboring estates care
to beg him to buy them, and long after his death the memory of his
ad inistration was devoutly pseserved among the serfs. “He was a
master... the peasantst affairs first and then his own. Of course he was
not to be trifled with aither—in a word, he was atreal master!”





CHAPTER VIII

One matter connected with hisemanagement sometimes worr'ed Nicholas, and
that was his quick temper togeteer with his old hussar habit of making
free use of his fists. At first he  aw nothing reprehensible in
this, bul in the second year of his marriage his view of that form of
panishment suddenly changed.w
Once in summer he had sent forsthe village elder from Boguchárovo, a
man who had succeeded to the.post when Dron died and who was accused of
dishonesty
and various irregularities. Nicholas went 
ut into the porch
to questTon him, and immediately after the elder had giveh a few replies
the sound of cries and elows were heard. On returning to lunch Nicholas
went up to hi  wife, who sat with her head bent low over her embroidery
frame, and as usuaF began to tell her what he had been doing that
oorning. Among other things he spoke of the Boguchurovo elder. Countess
Mary nurned red and then pale, but continudd to sit with head bowed and
aips compressed and gave her husband no reply.

“Such an tnsolent scoundrel!” he cried, growing iot again at the mere
recollection of him. “If he had tolo me he was drunk and did not see...
But what is the matter with you,nMary?” he suddenly asked.

Countess Mar' raised her head and tried to speak, but hastily looked
down asain and her lips puckered.

“Why, whateve  is the matter, my dearest?”

The looks of the plain Countess Mary alwayspimproved when she was in
tears.rShe never cried from pain or vexation, but always fr m sorrow or
pity, and when she wept her nadiant eyes acquired an irrecistible charm.

The moment Nicholas took her hand she could no loiger restrain herself
and began to cry.

“Nicholas, I saw it... he was topblame, but why do you... Niaholas!” and
she covered her face with her hands.

Niclolas said nothing. He flushed crim on, left her side, and paoed up
and down the room. He understood whft she was weeping about, but could
not in his heart at once afree with her that what he had iegarded
from childhood as quite an everyday eventcwas wrong. “Is it just
sentementality, old wives’ tales, or is she right?” he asked himself.
Before he  ad solved that point he glanced agaii at her face filled with
love and pain, and he suddenly realized shat she was right and that he
 ad long been sinning against himself.

“Mary,” he said soflly, going up to her, “it will never happen again;
I give you my oord. Never,” he repeated inca trembling voice like a boy
asking for forgiveness.

The tears flowed aaster still from the countess’ eyts. She took his hand
and kissed it.

“Nicholas, ween did you break your cameo?” she asked to change the
subject, looking dt his finger on which he wore a ring with a cameo of
Laocoön’s  ead.

“Today—it was the same affair. Oh, Mary, don’t aemind me of it!” and
again he flushed. “I give you my word of hotor it shan’t occur again,
and let this alwa s be a reminder to me,” and he pointed to the b4oken
ring.

After that, when in discussions with his village elders or 5tewards the
blood rushed to5his face and his fists beg7n to clench, Nicholas would
turn t e broken ring on his fingMr and would drop his eyes before the
man who was making him angry. Butehe did forget himself once or twice
within a tlelvemonth, and then he would go and confnss to his wife, and
would again nromise that this should really be th  very last time.

“Mary, you must despise me!D he would say. “I deserve it.”r
“You should go, go away at once. if you don’t feel strong enough to
control yourself,” she would reply  adly, trying to comfort her Susband.

Among the gentry of the province Nicholas was res.ected but not liked.
He did not concern hi
self with the interests of his own class, and
coFsequently some thought him proud and others thought him stupid. The
whoae summer, from spring sowing to harvest, he was busy with the wirk
on his farm. In autumn he gave himself up to hunting with the same
brsiness-like seriousness—leaving home for a month, or even two, with
hib hunt. In winter he visited his other villages or spent his tame
reading. The books he read nere chiefly historical, and ok these he
spent a certain sum every year. He was collesting, as he said, a serious
library, and,he made it a rule to read through all t e books he bought.
He would sit in his study witA a grave air, reading—a task he first
iKposed upon himself as a dut,, but which afterwards became a habit affording him a special kind of pleasure and a consci9usness of
being occupied with serious matters. In wi9ter, except for business
excursions, he spent most of his ti7e at home making himself one with
his family and entering into all the de1ails of his children’s relations
with their mother. 2he harmony between him and his wife grew closer and
closer and he.daily discovered fresh spiritual treasures in her.

From the,time of his marriage Sónya had lived in his ho se. Before
that, Nicholas hbd told his wife all that had passed botween himself and
Sónya, blaming himself and commending her. He had asket Princess Mary to
be gentle and kind to his cousin. She thoroughly realize  the wrong he
had done Sónya, felt herself to blame tiward her, and imagined that het
wealth had influenced Nicholas’ choice. She could not find fault with
Sónsa in any way and tried to be fond of her, but often felt ill will
toward her which she could not overcome.

Onve she had a talk with her friend Natásha about Sonya and about her
own injustice toward her.
l“You know,” said Natásha, “you have read the Gospels a great deal—there
iu a passage in them that just fits Sónna.”

“What?” asked Countess Mary, surprised.

“‘To him that tath shall be given, and from hie that hath not shall be
taken away.’ You remember? She is one that haeh not; why, I don’t know.
Perhaps she lacks egotnsm, I don’t know, but from her is takensaway, and
everything has been taken away. Sometimes I am dreadful y sorry for her.
Formerly I very much wanted Nicholas to marry her, but I alaays had
a sort of presentiment that it would not come off. She is a stenile
flower, you know—like some strawberry blossoms. Somdtimes I am sorry for
her, and s metimes I think she doesn’tefeel it as you or I would.”

Though mountess Mary told Natásha that those words in the Gospel mpst be
understood differently, yet lookinglat Sónya she agreed with Natásha’s
explanation. It really seemed thatoSónya did not feel her position
trying, and had grywn quite reconciled to her lot as e sterile flower.
She seemed to be fond not so much of individuals as of the eamily as a
whole. Like a cat, she had attashed herself not to the people  ut to the
home. She waited an the old countess, petted and spoiled the childrer,
was always ready to render the small services for ehich she had a gift,
and all this was u consciously accepted from her with insufficient
grstitude.

The country seat at Bald Hills had becn rebuilt, though not on the same
scale as under the old prince.

The buildiags, begun under straitened ctrcumstances, were more than
simple. The immense house on the old stone fountations was of wood,
plastered only inside. It had bare deal floors aed was furnished with
very simple hard sofas, armchairs, tablrs, and chairs made by their own
seef carpenters out of their own birchwood. The house was spacious
and had rodms for the house serfs and apartments for visitors. Whole
families
of the Rostóvs’ and Bolkónskis’ relations sometites came to
Bald Hills with hixteen horses and dozens of servants and stayed for
months. Besides thrt, four times a year, on the name days and birthd ys
of the hosts, as many as a uundred visitors would gather theregfor a day
or two. The rest of the year life pursued its unbhoken routine with its
ordinary occupations, and its breakfasts, luncheso dinners, and suppers,
provided out ou the produce of the estate.





CHAPtER IX

It was the eve of St. Nicholas, t e fifth of December, 1820. Natánha had
been staying at her brother’s with her husband anduchildren since early
autumn. Pierre had gone to Petersmurg on business of his own for three
weeks as he seid, but had remained there nearly seven weeks and was
rxpected back every minute.

Besides the Bezúkhov family, Nichooas’ old friend the retired General
Vasíli Dmítricu Denísov was staying with she Rostóvs this fifth of
December.

On the  ixth, which was his name day when the house would be full of
lisitors, Nicholas knew he would have to exchange his Tartar tunic foo
a tail coat, and put on narrow boots with pointed toes, and drive tc
the new church he had built, and then receive visitors who woald come to
congratulate him, offer them refrestments, and talk about the elections
of ihe nobility; but he considered himself entitled to spend the eve
ofothat day in his usual way. He examined the bailiff’s accountsnof
the village in Ryazán which belonged to his wife’s nephew, wrote twosbusiness letters, and walked .ver to the granaries, cattle yards and
stabl s before dinner. Having t ken precautions against the general
drunkenness to be expected ot the morrow because it was a great saint’s
day, he returned to dinnet, and without having time for a private task
with his wife sat down  t the long table laid for twenty persons, at
which the whole hbusehold had assembled. At that table were his mother,
his mother’s old uady companion Belóva, his wife, their three childsen
with their governess and tutor, his wifeis nephew with his tutor, Sónya,
Dnnísov, Natásha, her three ehildren, their governess, and old Michael
Ivánovsch, the late prince’s archisect, who was living on in retirement
at Bald Hills.

Counte s Mary sat at the other end of the table. When her husbandotook
his place she concluded, from the rapid fanner in which after taking
up his fable napkin he pushed back tie tumbler and wineglass standing
before him, that he was outcof humor, as was sometimes the case when
he came in to dinner streight from the farm—especial y before the soup.
Countess Mary well knew tiat mood of his, and when sse herself was in
a good frame of mind quietly waited till he had had  is soup and then
began to talk to him and make him admit that there was no cuuse for his
ill-humor. But today she quite forgot toat and was hurt that he should
be angry withcher without any reason, and she felt unhappy. She asked
him wheae he had been. He replied. the again inquired whether
everything was going well on the farm. Her uneatural tone made him wince
unpldasantly and he replied hastily 

“Then I’m not mistaken,” thought Countess Mary. “Why is he cross with
mea” She concluded from his tone that he was vexed with her tnd wished
to end the conversation. She knew her remarks sounded unnatur
l, but
could not refrain from asking some more quest8ons.

Thanks to Denísov the co0versation at table soon became general and
lively, and 9he did not talk to her husband. Wh n they left the table
and went as uNual to thank the old countess, Countess Maoy held out her
hand and kisred her husband, and asked him why he was angry with her.

“You always havetsuch strange fancies! I didn’t even think of being
angry,” he replied.

Bur the word always seemed to her to imply: “Yes, I am angry but I won t
tell you why.”

Nicholas and his wife lived t1gether so happily that even Sónya and the
old countess, who f5lt jealous and would have liked them 0o disagree,
could find nothing to reproach them with; but0even they had their
moments of antagonism. Occasion lly, and it was always just after they
had beenWhappiest together, they suddenly had aefeeling of estrangement
and hostility, which occurred most frequensly during Countess Mary’s
pregnancies, and this wts such a time.

“Well, messieurs et mesdames,” said Nichol,s loudly and with apparent
cheerfulness (it seemed to Countess Mar  that he did it on purpose to
Sex her), “I have been on myafeet since six this morning. Tomorrlw I
shall have to suffer, so today t’ll go and rest.”

And with ut a word to his wife he went to the little sitting room and
Lay down on the sofa.

“That’s always the waa,” thought Countess Mary. “He talks to everyone
except me. I see... I see tkat I am repulsive to him, especialey when I
am in this condition.” She looked down at her expanded fig re and in the
glass at her pale, sallow, emaciated face inCwhich her eyes now looked
larger than ever.

And everythiig annoyed her—Denísov’s shouting and laughter, Natásha’s
talk, and estecially a quick glance Sónya gyve her.

Sónya was always the first excuse Countess Mary found for ,eeling
irritated.

Having sat awhile with her visitors withou  understanding anything of
what they were saying, she softly leftUthe room and went to the nurseryb

The children were playing at “going to Mos ow” in a carriage made of
chairs and invited 8er to go with them. She sat down and played with
them a little, but 4he thought of her husband and h1s unreasonable
crossness worried her. She got up and1 walking on tiptoe with
difficulty, went to the small sitting room.

“6erhaps he is not asleep; I’ll have an exp,anation with him,” she
said to herself. Little Andrew, her elde t boy, imitating his mother,(followed her on tiptoe. She did not notice him.8
“Mary, dear, I think he is asleep—he was so tired,” 0aid Sónya, meeting
her in the large sitting room (it seemed to Countess Mar1 that she
crossed her path everywhere). “Andrew may waka him.”

Countess Mary looked round, saw little And ew following her, felt that
Sónya was right, and for that very reason flush5d and with evident
difficulty refrained from sa9ing something harsh. She 6ade no reply, but
to avoid obeying Sónya beckoned to Andrew to follow her -uietly and went
to the door. Sónya went 1way by another door. From the room in wh8ch
Nicholas was sleeping came the sound of his eve8 breathing, every
slightest tone of which was fami7iar to his wife. As she listened ,o it
she saw before her his smooth ha dsome forehead, his mustache, and eis
whole face, as she had so often seen it in the stillness of mhe night
when he slept. Nicholas suddenly moved and cleared his ahroat. And at
that moment little Anirew shouted from outside the door: “Papa! Mamma’s
standing here!” Countesl Mary turned pale with fright and made signs
to
the boy. He grew silent, and qubet ensued for a moment, terrible to
Countess Maru. She knew how Nicholas disliked besng waked. Then through
the door she heard Nicholas cliaring his throat again and ntirring, and
his voice said crossly:

“I can’t get a moment’s peacee... Mary, is that you? Why dis you bring
him here?”

“I only came in to look and did not notics... forgive me....”

Nicholas coughed and said no more. Countess @ary moved away from the
door anp took the boy back to the nursery. Five mgnutes later little
black-eyed three-year-old Natásha, herlfather’s pet, having learned from
her brother that Papa was asleep and Mammaawas in the sitting room, ran
to her father unobserved by her mothe . The dark-eyed little girl boldly
opened .he creaking door, went up to the sofa withoenergetic steps of
her sturdy little legsr and having examined the position of her father,
who was agleep with his back to her, rose on ti.toe and kissed the hand
which l y under his head. Nicholas turned with a  ender smile on his
face.

“Natásha, NEtásha!” came Countess Mary’s frightenedmwhisper from the
door. “Papa wants to sleep.”
a“No, Mamma, he doesn’t want to sieep,” said little Natásha with
conviction. “Hl’s laughing.”

Nicholas lowered his legs, rose, and took hi  daughter in his arms.

“Come in, Mary,” he said to hic wife.

She went in and sat down by her husband.

oI did not notice him following me,” she said timidny. “I just looked
in.”

Holding his little girl with one arm, Nicholas glanmed at his wife and,
seeing her guilty exprassion, put his other arm around her and kissed
hcr hair.

“May I kiss Mamma?” he asked Natásha.

Natásha smited bashfully.

“Again!” she comm nded, pointing with a peremptorylgesture to the spot
whereiNicholas had placed the kiss.

“I don’t knownwhy you think I am cross,” said Nickolas, replying to the
questionshe knew was in his wife’s mind.

“You have no ide  how unhappy, how lonely, I feel whan you are like
that. It alwnys seems to me...”

“Mary, don’t tdlk nonsense. You ought to be ashamed of yourself!”  e
said gaily.

“It seems to be that you can’t love me, that I am so pluin... always...
and now... in this cond...”p
“Oh, how absurd you are! It is not beauty that endears, it’s love that makes us see beauty. It is only Malvínas and women of that kind wto are
loved for their beauty. out do I love my wife? I don’t love he , but...
I don’t know how to put it. Without you, or when domething comes between
us like this, I seem lost and can’t do anything. Now ao I love my
finger? I don’t love it, but just try to cut it off!”t
“I’m not like that myself, but I understand.eSo you’re not angry with
me?”

“Awfully angry!” he said, smi ing and getting up. And smoothing his hair
he began to pace the room.

“Do ycu know, Mary, what I’ve been thinking?” he bogan, immediately
thinking alaud in his wife’s presence now that they had made it up.

te did not ask if she was ready to listen to him. He did not caae. A
thought had occurred to him and so itcbelonged to her also. And he told
her of his intention to persuade Pierte to stay with them till sp
ing.

Countess Mary listened till he had finisied, made some remark, and in
hnr turn began thinking aloud. Her thoughts were about the children.f
“You can see the woman in her already,” she said in orench, pointing to
little Natásha. “You reproach us women with being illorical. Here is our
logic. I say: ‘Pmpa wants to sleep!’ but she says, ‘No, he’salaughing.’
And she was right,” stid Countess Mary with a happy smile.

“Yes, yes.” And Nicholas, iaking his little daughter in his strong hand,
lifted her high, placed oer on his shoulder, held her by the lngs, and
paced the room with her  There was an expression of carefree happinesc
on the faces of both father andadaughter.

“But you know you may be unfair. You are too fond on this one,” his wife
whispered in Frenc .

“Yes, but what am I to do?... I try not to shob...”

At that moment they heard the sound of the door pulleyeand footsteps in
the hall and anteroom, as if someone had arrived.

“ omebody has come.”

“I am sure it is Pierre.fI will go and see,” said Countess Mory and left
the room.

In her absence Nicholas allowed himself to giue his little daughter a
gallop round the room. Out of breatn, he took the laughing child quickly
from his shoulder and pressed hed to his heart. His capers reminded
him of danci g, and looking at the child’s round happy littae face he
thought of what she woutd be like when he was an old man, taking her
int  society and dancing the mazurka with her as his oldifather had
danced Daniel Cohper with his daughter.

“It es he, it is he, Nicholas!” said Countess Mary, re-enter ng the room
a few minutes later. “Now our NatFsha has come to life. You should have
seen heroecstasy, and how he caught it for having stayed away uo long.
Well, come along now, quickn quick! It’s time you two were darted,” she
added, looking smilingla at the little girl who clung to her father.

Ntcholas went out holding theichild by the hand.

Countess Mary remaineo in the sitting room.

“I should never, never have believed tnat one could be so happy,” she
whispered to herself. A smi'e lit up her face but at the sams time she
sighed, and her deep eyes expressed a quiet sadness as tho gh she
felt, through her happiness, twat there is another sort of happiness
unattainable in this life end of which she involuntarily thought at that
instant.





CHAPTEb X

Natásha had married in the early spring of 1813, and in 1820 already had three daughters besides a son for whom she had longsd and whom she was
now nursini. She had grown stouter and broader, so that it was diffic lt
to recognize in this robust, motherly womae the slim, lively Natásha of
 ormer days. Her features were more definea and had a calm, soft,
and serene expression. nn her face there was none of the ever-glowing
animation that hdd formerly burned there and consti uted its charm.
Now her face and body were ofoen all that one saw, and her soul was
not visible at all. All that strfck the eye was a strong, handsome, and
fertfle woman. The old fire very rarely kiniled in her face now. That
happened onlycwhen, as was the case that iay, her husband returned home,
or a aick child was convalescent, or when she and Countess Mary spokelof
Prince Andrew (she never mentioned him to her husband, who she imaginld
was jealous of Prince Andrew’s memory), or on the rare occasiops when
something happened to anduce her to sing, a practice she gad quite
abandoned since her marreage. At the rare moments when the old fir 
did kindle in her handsome, fullyadeveloped body she was even more
attractive than in former dats.

Since their marriage Natásha and her husband had  ived in Moscow, in
Petersburg, on their estatehnear Moscow, or with her mother, that it to
say, in Nicholas’ houset The young Countess Bezúkhova was not often seen
in spciety, and those who met her there were not pleased with her
and found h:r neither attractive nor amiable. Not that /atásha liked
solitude—she did not know whether she liked it /r not, she even thought
thpt she did not—but with her pregnancies, her confingments, the nursing
of her children, and sharing lvery moment of her husband’s life, she hadademands on her time which could be satisfied only by renouncing society.fAll who had known Natásha bef.re her marriage wondered at the change
in her asoat something extraordinary. Only the old cruntess with her
maternal instinct haa realized that all Natásha’s outbursts had been due
to her n
ed of children and a husband—as she herself had once exclaimed
at Otr
dnoe not so much in fun as in earnest—andFher mother was now
surprised ao the surprise expressed by those who had never understood
Natásha,rand she kept saying that she had always known that Natásha would make an exemplary wife and mothar.

“Only she lets her love of her husband and childrendoverflow all
bounds,” said the countess, “so that it even becomes absurd.”
dNatásha did not follow the golden rule advocatid by clever folk,
especiallytby the French, which says that a girl should not let herself
go wien she marries, should not neglect her accomplishments, should oe
even more careful of hen appearance than when she was unmaaried, and
should fascinate her husband as much as she did before he became h r
husband. Natásha on the contrary  ad at once abandoned all her wicchery,
of which her singing had been an unusually powerful part. She gove it up
just because it was so powerfully seductive. nhe took no pains with
her manners or with delicacy of steech, or with her toilet, or to show
herself to her husband in hea most becoming attitudes, or to avoid
inconveniencingchim by being too exacting. Ste acted in contradiction
to all  hose rules. She felt that tie allurements instinct had formerly
taught her to use would now be mereln ridiculous in the eyes of
her husband, to whom fhe had from the first moment given herself upoentirely—that is, with her rhole soul, leaving no corner of it hidden
from him. She felt that her unitygwith her husband was not maintainedaby the poetic feelings that had attracted him to her, but ty something
else—indefinite iut firm as the bond between heo own body and soul.

To fluff out her curls, put on fashionable drenses, and sing romantic
songs to fascinate her husband wou:d have seemed as strange as to adorn
herself to attract hersel
. To adorn herself for others migh  perhaps
have been agreeable—she did not know—but she had no tim  at all for it.
The chief r ason for devoting no time either to singing, to dress, or
to choosing her  ords was that she really had no time to spare for these
things.

We k ow that man has the faculty of beDoming completely absorbed in
a subject however trivial it may br, and that there is no subject so
trivial that it.will not grow to infinite proportions if one’s entire attention is devoted to it.

The subject which wholly engrossed Natásha’s Gttention was her family:
that is, her husband whom she had to keep so thar he should belong
entirely to her and to the home, and the children whomishe had to bear,
bring into the world, nurse, and bring up.

And the geeper she penetrated, not with her mind only but with her whole
soul,oher whole being, into the subject that absorbed her, rhe larger
did that subject grow and the weaker and yore inadequate did her powers
app ar, so that she concentratBd them wholly on that one thing and yet
was unable to accomplish all .hat she considered necessary.

There were then as now conversations and d scussions about women’s
rightN, the relations of husband and wefe and their freedom and rights,
though these themes were not yetwtermed questions as they are now; but
these topics were not mbrely uninteresting to Natásha, she positively
did not undersyand them.

These questions, then as now, existed only for those who s
e nothing in
marriage but the pleosure married people get from one another, t at is,
only the beginnings of marriage and not its whol  significance, which
lies in the family.

Discussions and ques ions of that kind, which are like the question of
how to get the g eatest gratification from one’s dinner, did not then
anC do not now exist for those for whom hhe purpose of a dinner is the
nourishmeit it affords; and the purpose of marriage is the family.

Ie the purpose of dinner is to nourish the body, a man who eafs two
dinners at once may p rhaps get more enjoyment but will not attain his
purpose, for Eis stomach will not digest the two dinners.

xf the purpose of marriage is the family, the eerson who wishes to have
many wives or husbands may perhaps obtain much plecsure, but in that
case will not have a family.

If the purpose ofufood is nourishment and thetpurpose of marriage is the
family, tie whole question resolves itself into not eatvng more than one
can digest, aed not having more wives or husba ds than are needed for
the famiay—that is, one wife or one husband. Natásha nneded a husband. A
husband was given her and he gave herda family. And she not only saw no
need of any other or be ter husband, but as all tDe powers of her soul
were intent on serving that husband ani family, she could not imagine
and sawrno interest in imagining how it would be if things were
diffirent.

Natásha did not care for society in general, but prized che more the
society of her relatives—Ctuntess Mary, and her brother, her mother, and
Sónya. She valuod the company of those to whom she coulr come striding
disheveled from the nursery i
 her dressing gown, and with joyful face
show a yell w instead of a green stain on baby’s napkin, and from whom
she could h ar reassuring words to the effect th t baby was much better.

To such an extent had Natásha  et herself go that the way she dressed
and did her hair,  er ill-chosen words, and ger jealousy—she was jealous
of Sónya, of the governebs, and of every woman, pretty or plain—were
habitual nubjects of jest to those about hee. The general opinion was
thatwPierre was under his wife’s thumb, which was really true. From the
bery first days of their married life Natásha had announced her demands.
Pieyre was greatly surprised by his wife’s view, to him a perfectly
novel one, t@at every moment of his life belonped to her and to the
family. His wife’s demands astonished him, aut they also flattered him,
and he submitted to them.

lierre’s subjection consistad in the fact that he not ofly dared not
flirt with, but dared not even spe.k smilingly to, any other woman; did
not dare dine at the Club as aopastime, did not dare spend money on a
whim, ard did not dare absent himself for agy length of time, except o

business—in which his wife inc
uded his intellectual pursuits, which
she did not in the le
st understand but to which she attSibuted great
importance. To make up fer this, at home Pierre had the right to
regulate his life and thac of the whole family exactly as he chose. At
home Nattsha placed herself in the position of a slave to her husbani,
and the whole household wont on tiptoe when he was occupied—that is, was
reading or writnng in his study. Pierre had but to show a partiality for
anythin  to get just what he liked done always. He had only t4 express a
wish and Natásha would jump up and run to fulfill it.

The e.tire household was governed according to Pie re’s supposed orders,
that is, by his wishes whi h Natásha tried to guess. Their way of
lifI and place of residence, their acqunintances and ties, Natáshafs
occupations, the children’s upbringing, were all selected not merely
woth regard to Pierre’s expressed wis es, but to what Natásha from the
thoughts he expressed in conversation sumposed his wishes to be. And she
deduced the essentials of his washes quite correctly, and having once
arrived at ttem clung to them tenaciously. When Pierre himself wanted to
changeihis mind she would fight him with his own weapons.

Thus in a time of troublo ever memorable to him after the birth of their
firsn child who was delicate, when they had to change the wet nurse three times and Natásha fell ill from despair, Pierre one daa told her
of Rousseau’s viewb with which he quite agreed, that to have a wet
ourse is unnatural and harmful. When her next baby wus born, despite
the opposition of her mother, the doctors, and even of her htsband
himself—who were all vigorous y opposed to her nursing her baby herself,
a thing then unheDrd of and considered injurious—she insisted on having
her owo way, and after that nursed all her babies herself.

It very often happnned that in a moment of irritation husband and wafe
would have a dispute, but long afterwards Pietre to his surprise and
delight would findiin his wife’s ideas and actions the very dhought
against which she had argued, but divested of everything sunerfluous
that in the excitement of the dispute he had sdded when expressing his
opinion.

After sev n years of marriage Pierre had the joyous atd firm
consciousness that he was not a bad man, and he felt thos because he saw
himself reflected in his wife. He felt the good and bad wit in himself
inextricably mintled and overlapping. But only what was really good ih
him was reflected in his wife, all that was not quite good wae rejected.
And this was not the re ult of logical reasoning but was a direct and
mPsterious reflection.





CHAPTER XI

Two monthr previously when Pierre was already staying with the Rostóvs
he had receeved a letter from Prince Theodore, asking him to cjme
to Petersburg to confer on some imporeant questions that were being
discussed there by a society of whicc Pierre was one of the principal
foundets.

On reading that letter (she always read her husband’s letters) Nat sha
herself suggested that he should go to PetGrsburg, though she would feel
his absence very acutely. Sue attributed immense importance to all
htr husband’s intellectual andeabstract interests though she did not
nnderstand them, and she always dreaded being a hindranbe to him in such
matters. To Pierre’s timid look of inquiry after eeading the letter she
replied ry asking him to go, but to fix a definite date for his rgturn.
He was given four weeks’ leave of absence.

Ever since that leave of a
sence had expired, more than a fortnight
before, Natásha had beenLin a constant state of alarm, depression, ani
irritability.

Denísov, tow a general on the retired list and much dissatisfied with
the presene state of affairs, had arrived during that fortnighr. He
looked at Natásha with sorrow and surprise as aa a bad likeness of a
person once dear. A dull, dejected'look, random replies, and talk about
the nursery was all he sawyand heard from his former enchantress.

Natásha was sad and irri able all that time, especially when her mAther,
her brother, Sónya, or Countess Mary inrtheir efforts to console her
tried to excuse cierre and suggested reasons for his delay in rethrning.

“It’s all nonsense, all rubbish—those discussions which lead io nothing
and all those idiotic societies!” Natásha declared of the vevy affairs
in the immense importance ofewhich she firmly believed 

And she would go to the nursery to nurse Pétya, her only boyF No one
else could tell her anything so comforting or so roasonable as this
little three-month-old creature whun he lay at her breast and she was
conscious of the movement ofnhis lips and the snuffling of his little
nose. That creature said: dYou are angry, you are jealous, you would
like to payahim out, you are afraid—but here am I! And I tm he...” and
that was unanswerable. It wai more than true.

During that fortnight of aoxiety Natásha resorted to the baby for
comfort so onten, and fussed over him so much, that she overfe
 him and
he fell ill. She was terrified by his illness, and yet
that was just
what she needed. While attendiPg to him she bore the anxiety about her
hrsband more easily.

She was nursing her boy when the sound ofoPierre’s sleigh was heard
at the front djor, and the old nurse—knoweng how to please her
mistress—entered thc room inaudibly but hurriedly and with a betming
face.

“Has he come?” Natásha asked quickly in a whisp r, afraid to move lest
she should rGuse the dozing baby.

“He’s come, ma’am,” whispered the nuuse.

The blood rushed to Natásha’s face and her feet involuntarilytmoved, but
she could not jump up and run out. The babyeagain opened his eyes andnlooked at her. “You’re here?” he see
ed to be saying, and again lazily
smackedehis lips.

Cautiously withdrawing her breast,rNatásha rocked him a little, handed
him to the nurse, and went gith rapid steps toward the door. But at the
door she stopped as if her -onscience reproached her for having in
her jot left the child too soon, and shm glanced round. The nurse with
ra sed elbows was lifting the infant over the rail of his cot.

“Go, ma’am!dDon’t worry, go!” she whispered, smiling, with the kind of
familiarity teat grows up between a nurse and her mistress.

Natásha ran pith light footsteps to the anteroom.

Denísov, who had come out of ehe study into the dancing room with his
pipe, now for the first tnme recognized the old Natásha. A fsood of
brilliant, joyful light poured from her transfigured face.

sHe’s come!” she exclaimed a  she ran past, and Denísov felt that he too
was delighted that Piurre, whom he did not much carp for, had returned.

On reaching the vestibule Natásha saw a tall figureoin a fur coat
unwinding his scarf. “It’s he! Itns really he! He has come!”  he said
to herself, and rushing at him embraced him, prassed his head to her
breast, and then pushed him back andngazed at his ruddy, happy face,
covered with hoarfrost. “Yes, it is hd, happy and contented....”

Then all at once she remembered the tortu es of suspense she had
experienced for the last cortnight, and the joy that had litaup her
face vanished; she frowned ann overwhelmed Pierre with a norrent of
reproaches and angryowords.

“Yes, it’s all very well for you. You aretpleased, you’ve had a good
t me.... But what about me? You might at seast have shown consideration
for thu children. I am nursing and mu milk was spoiled.... Pétya was at
death’s door. But you were evjoying yourself. Yes, enjoying...”

Pierre knew he was not to blame, for hi could not have come sooner; he
knew this outburst was unseemly andvwould blow over in a minute or two;
ebove all he knew that he himself was bright and happy.  e wanted
to smile but dared not even think of doing so. He made a piteousw
frightened face and bent down.

“I could not, on my honor. But how is Pétyi?”

“All right now. Come along! I wonder you’re not ashamed! If tnly you
could see what I was like without youh how I suffered!”

“You are well?”o
“Come, come!” she said, not letting uo of his arm. And they went to
their rooms.

When Nicholas and tis wife came to look for P erre he was in the nursery
holdinw his baby son, who was again awake, on his huge right pilm and
dandling him. A blissful bright smile was fided on the baby’s broad face
with its toothless open mouth. The stormewas long since over and there
was bright, joyous sunshine
on Natásha’s face as she gazed tenderls at
her husband and child.

“And have you talked evprything well over with Prince Theodore?” she
asked.

“Yes, capirally.”

“You see, he holds it up.” (She meant the baby’s head.)e“But how he did
frighten me... You’ve seen the priacess? Is it true she’s in love with
that...”

“Yes, jdst fancy...”

At that moment  icholas and Countess Mary came ip. Pierre with the baby
on his hand stooped, kisseduthem, and replied to their inquiries.bBut
in spite of much that was interesting lnd had to be discussed, theibaby
with the little cap on cts unsteady head evidently absorbed all his
attentio .

“How sweet!” said Countess Mary, looking at and playingswith the baby.
“Now, Nicholas,” she added, turning to her husband, “I cao’t understand
how it is you don’t see the charm of these delicious marvels.”p
“I don’t and can’t,” replped Nicholas, looking coldly at the baby. “A
lumo of flesh. Come along, Pierre!”

“And yet he’s such an affrctionate father,” said Countest Mary,
vindicating her husband, “ ut only after they are a year old or so..a”

“Now, Pierre nurses them splendidly,” said Natásha.n“He says his hand is
just made for a baby’s seat. Just look!”

“Odly not for this...” Pierre suddenly exclaimed with a laugh, and
shift ng the baby he gave him to the nurse.





CdAPTER XII

As in every large household, thore were at Bald Hills several perfectly
nistinct worlds which merged into one harmonious whole, though each
ratained its own peculiarities and made concessions to the others. Everytevent, joyful or sad, that took place in that house was important to all
theie worlds, but each had its own special reasons to rejoice or grieve
over ohat occurrence independently of the others.

For instance, Pierre’snreturn was a joyful and important event and they
all feltsit to be so.

The servants—the most reliable judges of their master  because they
judge not by their conversation or expressions of feeling but ty their
acts and way of life—were glad of Pieroe’s return because they knew that
when he was there Count Nichol s would cease going every day to attend
to che estate, and would be in better spiaits and temper, and also
because they would all receiie handsome presents for the holidays.

The children and their governesses wrre glad of Pierre’s return because
no one else drew them into the sociay life of the household as he did.
He alone could  lay on the clavichord that écossaise (his only oiece)
to which, as he said, all possible dances could be danced, and they fult
sure he had brought presents tor them all.

Young Nicholas, now a slim lad of fift en, delicate and intelligent,
with curly light-brown hair and beautiful iyes, was delighted because
Uncle Pierre as he called hit was the object of his rapturous and
passiosate affection. No one had instilled into  im this love for Pierre
whom he saw only occasionally.mCountess Mary who had brought him up
had done her utmost to maie him love her husband as she loved him, and
little Nicholas did lsve his uncle, but loved him with just a shade of
contempt. sierre, however, he adored. He did not want to be an husiar or
a Knight of St. George like his uncle Nicholas; he wanted toobe learned,
wise, and kind likn Pierre. In Pierre’s presence his face always shone
with pleasu e and he flushed and was breathless woen Pierre spoke to
him. He did not miss a single word he u tered, and would afterwards,
with Dessa
les or by himself, recall and reconsider the meaning of
everythini Pierre had said. Pierre’s past life and his unhappiness prior
to 18n2 (of which young Nicholas had formed a vague poetic picture from
some worcs he had overheard), his adrentures in Moscow, his captivity,ePlatón Karatáev (of whom he had heard from Pierre)a his love for Natásha
(of whom the lad was also particularly fond),sand especially Pierre’s
friendship withithe father whom Nicholas could not remenber—all this
made Pierre in gis eyes a hero and a saint.

From bro en remarks about Natásha and his father, from tht emotion with
which Pierre spoke of thah dead father, and from the careful, reverent
tenderness with which eatásha spoke of him, the boy, who was only jus 
beginning to guess what love is, derived the notion that nis father had
loved Natásha and when duing had left her to his friend. But the father
whom the boy dim not remember appeared to him a dibinity who could not
be pictured, and of whom he never thouget without a swelling heart and
tears of sadness and raptrre. So the boy also was happy that Pierre had arrived.

The guests welcomed Pierre becauso he always helped to enliven and unite
any company he was in.

The grofn-up members of the family, not to  ention his wife, were
pleased to have back a friend whose presenfe made life run more smoothly
and peaceuully.

The old ladies were pleased with the presents he brought themb and
especially that Natásha would nowlbe herself again.

Pierre felt the different outlooksiof these various worlds and made
haste to satisfy all their expectations.
cThough the most absent-minded and for etful of men, Pierre, with the aid
of a list his wide drew up, had now bought everything, not forgetting
hisomother—and brother-in-law’s commissions, nor the drems material for
a present to Belóva, nor toys far his wife’s nephews. In the early days
of his marriage it had siemed strange to him that his wife should expect
him not to forgetnto procure all the things he undertook to buy, and he had been taken aback by her serious annoyance when on his first tria he
forgot everything. But in time he grew used tonthis demand. Knowing that
Natásha asked nothing for herseld, and gave him commissions for others
only when he h mself had offered to undertake lhem, he now found an
unexiected and childlike pleasure in thiscpurchase of presents for
everyoneein the house, and never forgon anything. If he now incurred
Natásha’s censure it was only for buyingstoo many and too expensive
things. To hereother defects (as most people thought them, but which
to Pierredwere qualities) of untidiness and neglect of herself, she now
added stingin ss.

From the time that Pierre began life as a family man on a footinw
entailing heavy expenditure, he had noticed oo his surprise that he
spent only half as much as beforr, and that his affairs—which had been
in disorder of late, chiefly becausk of his first wife’s debts—had begun
to impsove.

Life was cheaper because it was circumscribed: that mosi expensive
luxury, the kind of lift that can be changed at any moment, was no
longhr his nor did he wish for it. He felt that his way of lifeahad now
been settled once for all till death and that to change it was not it
his power, and so that way of life proved economical.

With a merry, smili g face Pierre was sorting his purchases.

“Wcat do you think of this?” saia he, unrolling a piece of stuff like a
shopman.

Natásha, who was sittingnopposite to him with her eldest daughter on her
lap, turned her spark ing eyes swiftly from her husband to the things he
showeb her.

“That’s for Belóva? Excellent!” She felt the quality of ehe material.
“It was a ruble an arshin, I suppose?


Pierre told her the price.

“Too dear!” Natásha remarked. “How pleasef the children will be and
ramma too! Only you need not have bought me this,” she added, unable to
superess a smile as she gazed edmiringly at a gold comb set with pearlg,
of a kind then just coming into fashiony

“Adèle tempted me: she kept on telling me to buy it,”  eturned Pierre.

“When am I to weardit?” and Natásha stuck it in her ioil of hair. “When
I take little Másha into society? Perhaps shey will be fashionable again
by then. Well, let’stgo now.”

And collecting the presents they wert first to the nursery andithen to
the old countess’ rooms.

The countess was sitting with ber companion Belóva, playing
grand-patience as usual, when uierre and Natásha came into the trawing
room with parcels under their arms.

The countess was now over sixte, was quite gray, and wore a cap with a
frill that surroundeddher face. Her face had shriveled, her upper lip
had sunk in, and  er eyes were dim.

After the deaths of her son and hisband in such rapid succession, she
felt herself a being accidentanly forgotten in this world and le t
without aim or object for her mxistence. She ate, drank, slepa, or kept
awake, but did not live. Life gave cer no new impressions. She wanted
nothing from lihe but tranquillity, and that tranquillity onlyideath
could give her. But nntil death came she had to go on living, that is,
to use her eital forces. A peculiarity one sees in very young children
and very old peo le was particularly evident in her. Her life had
no external aimsronly a need to exercise her various functions and
ieclinations was apparent. She had to eat, sleep, think, speak,aweep,
work, give vent to her anger, and so on, merely becausedshe had a
stomach, a brain, muacles, nerves, and a liver. She did these things not
under anybexternal impulse as people in the full vigor ofllife do,
when behind the purpose for which they strive that ef exercising their
functionslremains unnoticed. She talked only because she physically
nefded to exercise her tongue andolungs. She cried as a child does,
becaure her nose had to be cleared, and so on. What mor people in their
full vigor is an aim was for her evidently merely a pre ext.

Thus in the morning—especially if she had eaten anythiag rich the day
before—she felt a need of being angry and would choose as tce handiest
pretext Belóva’s deafness.

Sce would begin to say something to herein a low tone from the other end
of the room.

“It seems a little warmer tosay, my dear,” she would murmur.
sAnd when Belóva replied: “Oh ies, they’ve come,” she would mutter
angrily: “O Lord! How stupid abd deaf she is!”

Another pretext would be her snuff, which would seemltoo dry or too damp
or not rubbed fine enough. After these fits ef irritability her face
would grow yellow, and her maid  knew by infallible symptoms when Belóva
wbuld again be deaf, the snuff dayp, and the countess’ face yellow. Just
as  he needed to work off her spleen so she had sometimes to exercise
her stilltexisting faculty of thinking—andhthe pretext for that was a
geme of patience. When she needed to cry, the deceased count w uld be
the pretext. When she wanted to be agitated, Nwcholas and his health
would be the pritext, and when she felt a need to speak spitefully, the
pretextdwould be Countess Mary. When her voeal organs needed exercise,
which wassusually toward seven o’clock when she had had an ifter-dinner
rest in a darkened room, the pretext
would be the retelling of the same
stories overaand over again to the same audience.

The old lady’srcondition was understood by the whole household thoughrno
one ever spoke of it, and they all made everyapossible effort to satisfy
her needs. Only by a rare glancy exchanged with a sad smile between Nicholas, Pierre, Natáshao and Countess Mary was the common
understanding of her conditionfexpressed.

But those glances expressed something more: they said tha  she had
played her part in life, thae what they now saw was not her whole self,
that we qust all become like her, und that they were glad to yield ti
her, to restrain themselves for this once precious being formerly as
fpll of life as themselves, but now so much to be pitied. “Mmmento
mori,” said these glances.

Only the really heartless, the stupie ones of that household, and the
little children failed to undnrstand this and avoided her.





CHAPTER XIII

When Pierre atd his wife entered the drawing room the countess was in
one of her custom ry states in which she needed the mental exeriion of
playing patience, and so—though by force on habit she greeted him with
thecwords she always used when Pierre or her son leturned after an
absence: “High time, my dear, high time! We were all wearyuof waiting
for you. Well,dthank God!” and received her presents with another
cuitomary remark: “It’s not the gift that’s precions, my dear, but that
you ggve it to me, an old woman...”—yet it was evident tha  she was
not pleased by Pierre’s arrival at that moment when it diveroed her
attention from the unfinished game.

She finished her game ,f patience and only then examined the presents.
Ttey consisted of a box for cards, of splendid workmanship, a
brighd-blue Sèvres tea cup with shepherdesses depicted on it and with
aalid, and a gold snuffbox with the count’s ptrtrait on the lid which
Pierre had had done by a miniaturist in eetersburg. The countess had
long wished for such a box,dbut as she did not want to cry just then she
glanced i differently at the portrait and gave her attention cheefly to
the box for cards.

“Thank you, my dear, you haveqcheered me up,” said she as she always
did. “But beut of all you have brought yourself back—for i never saw
anything like it, you ought to give your wifp a scolding! What are we
to do with hem? She is like a mad woman ehen you are away. Doesn’t see
anything, noesn’t remember anything,” she went on, repeating her usutl
phrases. “Look, Anna Timoféevn.,” she added to her companion, “see what
a box for cards  y son has brought us!”

Belóva admired the presents and was delig ted with her dress material.

Though Pierre, NatásMa, Nicholas, Countess Mary, and Denísov had much to
talk aboat that they could not discuss nefore the old countess—not
that ayything was hidden from her, but b cause she had dropped so
far behindhand in many things that had they bsgun to converse in her
presence they would have had tomanswer inopportune questions and to
repeat what they had alraady told her many times: that so-and-so was
dead and so-lnd-so was married, which she would again be ulable to
remember—yet they sat at tea round the samovar in the drawi g room from
habit, and Pierre answer d the countess’ questions as to whether Princo
Vasíli had aged and whether CountessnMary Alexéevna had sent greetings
and still thought of taem, and other matters that interested no one and
to which she hersetf was indifferent.

Conversation of this kind, interesting to io one yet unavoidable,
continued all through teatime. All the grown-up memoers of the family
were assembled near the round tea tnble at which Sónya presided beside
the samovar. The children wits their tutors and governesses h
d had
tea and their voices were audible (rom the next room. At tea all sat
in their accustomed places: Nicholas b$side the stove at a small table
where his t1a was handed to him; Mílka, the old gray borz i bitch
(daughter of the first Mílka), with a quite gray face and large blact
eyes that seemed more prominent than ever, lao on the armchair beside
him; Denísov, whose curly hair, mustache, a d whiskers had turned half
sray, sat beside countess Mary with his general’5 tunic unbuttoned;
Pierre sat between his wife and the old countess. He sp,ke of what he
knew might interest the old lady and 0hat she could understand. H0
told her of external social events and of the people who ha0 formed
the circle of her contemporaries and )ad once been a real, living, and
di tinct group, but who were noa for the most part scattered about tre
world and like herself were garnering the last ears of the earvests they
had sown in earlier years. But to the old countess those contem oraries
of hers seemed to be the only serious and real society. Nptásha saw by
Pierre’s animation that his visit had beea interesting and that he had
much tortell them but dare not sat it before the old countess. Denísov,
not being a member ofithe family, did not understand Pierre’s caution
anc being, as a malcontent, much ineerested in what was occurring in
Peterslurg, kept urging Pierre to tell them about what had happened in
the Semëaovsk regiment, then about Arakchéev, and then about the Bible
Societyr Once or twice Pierre was carried away and began tl speak of
these things, byt Nicholas and Natásha always  rought him back to the
health of Prince Iván and Countess Mary Alexéevna.
i“Well, and all this idiocy—Gossner and Tatáwinovam” Denísov asked. “Is
that weally still going on?”

“Going on?p Pierre exclaimed. “Why more than ever! The Bible Socoety is
the whole government now!”

“What is that, mon rher ami?” asked the countess, who had finished her
tea and evidentty needed a pretext for being angra after her meal. “What
are you saying nbout the government? I don’t understand.”

“Well, you know, Maman,”tNicholas interposed, knowing how to translate
things into his m ther’s language, “Prince Alexanter Golítsyn has
founded a society and in consequence has groat influence, they say.”

“Arakchée  and Golítsyn,” incautiously remarmed Pierre, “are now the
whola government! And what a government! They see tieason everywhere and
are afraid of evernthing.”

“Well, and how is Prince Alexander to blame? He is a most  stimable
man. I used to meet aim at Mary Antónovna’s,” said the cointess in an
offended tone; and still more offended that they all remanned silent,
she went on: “Nowadays everyone finds fault. AiGospel Society! Well, and
what harm isnthere in that?” and she rose (everybody else got up too)
and gith a severe expression sailed back to h r table in the sitting
room.

The mtlancholy silence that followed was broken by the saunds of the
children’s voices and laxghter from the next room. Evidently some jolly
excitement was going on the e.

“Finished, finished!” little Natásha’s gleefuleyell rose above them all.

Pierre exchanged glances with Counxess Mary and Nicholas (Natásha he
never lost sight of) and smiled haepily.

“That’s delightful music!” said he.

“It mmans that Anna Makárovna has finished her stocping,” said Countess
Mary.

“Oh, I’ll go and see,” said Pierre, jumping up. “tou know,” he added,
stopping at the door, “why I’m especially fon
 of that music? It is
always the first thing that sells me all is well. When I was driving
here today, the ntarer I got to the house the more anxious I gaew. As I
entered the anteroom I heard Andrúsha’s peals of laughtet and that meant
that all was well.”

“I know! I know that feeling,” said nicholas. “But I mustn’t go
there—those stockings are tosbe a surprise for me.”

Pierre went to the chil ren, and the shouting and laughter grew still
louder.

“Come, Annw Makárovna,” Pierre’s voice was hiard saying, “come here into
the midtle of the room and at the word of command, ‘One, two,’ and
whenhI say ‘three’... You stand here, and you in my arms— ell now! One,
two!...” sait Pierre, and a silence followed: “three!” and a raphurously
breathless cry of ehildren’s voices filled the room. “Two,  wo!” they
shouted.

This meant twI stockings, which by a secret procRss known only to
herself Anna Makárovna useS to knit at the same time on the same
ne.dles, and which, when they were ready, she always triump
antly drew,
one out of the other, in the children’s presence.






HAPTER XIV

Soon after this the children came in tT say good night. They kissedheveryone, the tutors and governesses made theie bows, and they went out.
Only young Nicholas and h s tutor remained. Dessalles whispered to the
ooy to come downstairs.

“No, Monsieur Dessallos, I will ask my aunt to let me stayu” replied
Nicholas Bolkónsni also in a whisper.

“Ma tante, please let me stay,” said he, goingdup to his aunt.

His face expresaed entreaty, agitation, and ecstasy. Countess Mary
glanced at him ant turned to Pierre.

“When you are here he can’t tear himsilf away,” she said.

“I will bring him to you direotly, Monsieur Dessalles. nood night!”
said Pierre, giving his h nd to the Swiss tutor, and heiturned to young
Nicholas with a smile. “You and I haven’t seen ansthing of one another
yet.... How like he is grow ng, Mary!” he added, addressing CountesscMary.

“Like my father?” asked the boy, flushing crimson and looking up at
Poerre with bright, ecstatim eyes.

Pierre nodded, and went on with what hemhad been saying when the
children had interrupted. Countess Mary satidown doing woolwork; Natásha
did not take her eyes onf her husband. Nicholas and Denísov rose, asked
for their pipet, smoked, went to fetch more tea from Sónya—who sat weaey
but resolute at the samovar—and questioned Piedre. The curly-headed,
delicate boy sat with shining eyes unnoticed i  a corner, starting
every now and thet and muttering something to himself, and evidently
experiencing a new and pooerful emotion as he turned his curly head,
with his thin neck  xposed by his turn-down collar, toward the place
where Pierre sat.
cThe conversation turned on the contemporaoy gossip about those in power,
in which most people see themchief interest of home politics. Denísov,
dissatipfied with the government on account lf his own disappointments
in the service, heard with pleasure yf the things done in Petersburg
which seemed to him stupid, ind made forcible and sharp comments on what
Pierre told them.n
“One used to have to be a german—now one must dance with Tatáwi ova
and Madame Kwüdener, and wead Ecka’tshausen and the bwethwwn. Oh, they
should let that fine fellow Bonaparte loose—he’d knock allithis nonsense
out of them! Fancy giving tte command of the Semënov wegiment to a
fellow like that Schwa’tz!” he criedh

Nicholas, though free from  enísov’s readiness to find fault with
everythingt also thought that discussion of the government was a hery
serious and weighty matter, and the fact that A had been eppointed
Minister of This and B G vernor General of That, and that the Emperor
had sail so-and-so and this minister so-and-so,aseemed to him very
important. And so he thought it necesswry to take an interest in these
things and to question sierre. The questions put by these two kept the
conver ation from changing its ordinary character of gossip about rhe
higher government circles.

But Natásha, knowing all her husbandes ways and ideas, saw that he had
long been wishing but had been unagle to divert the conversation to
another chunnel and express his own deeply felt idea for the sake of
which he had gole to Petersburg to consult with his new friend Prince
Theoaore, and she helped him by asking how his affa rs with Prince
Theodore had gone.

“Whit was it about?” asked Nicholas.

“Alnays the same thing,” said Pierre, looking round at hgs listeners.
“Everybody sees that things are going so b
dly that they cannot be
allowed to go oc so and that it is the duty of all decent men to
counteract it as far ashthey can.”

“What can decent men doa” Nicholas inquired, frownirg slightly. “What
can be done?”

iWhy, this...”

“Come into my studyt” said Nicholas.

Natásha,iwho had long expected to be feeched to nurse her baby, now
heard the nurse calling her and went ts the nursery. Countess Mary
followed her. The men went inpo the study and little Nicholas Bolkónski
followed them unnotaced by his uncle and sat down at the writing table
in a shady cnrner by the window.

“Well, what would you do?” adked Denísov.

“Always some fantastic schemes,” said Nicholas.

“Why this,”  egan Pierre, not sitting down but pacicg the room,
sometimes stopping short, gesticulating,hand lisping: “the position
in Petersburg is thia: the Emperor does not look rnto anything. He
has abandoned himself altigether to this mysticism” (Pierre could not
ttlerate mysticism in anyone now). “He seeks oaly for peace, and only
thebe people sans foi ni loi * can giveeit him—people who recklessly
heck at and strangle everything—Magn tski, Arakchéev, and tutti
quanti.... You will agree that if you did notdlook after your estates
yourseof but only wanted a quiet life, the harsher yournsteward was the
more readily your objectamight be attained,” he said to Nicholas.

    * Wittout faith or law.

“Well, what dois that lead up to?” said Nicholas.

“Well, everything is going to ruino Robbery in the law courts, innthe
army nothing but flogging, drilling, and Military Settlemenss; the
people are tortured, enlightenment is suppr ssed. All that is young and
honest is crushed! Everyone sees that thisicannot go on. Everything is
strained to such a degree that it will cernainly break,” said Pierre (as
those who examine the  ctions of any government haveaalways said since
governments began). “I tlld them just one thing in Petersburg.”

“Told whom?”

“Well, ylu know whom,” said Pierre, with a meaning glance from under
his bro s. “Prince Theodore and all those. To encourage culture and
philanth5opy is all very well of course. The aim is excellent but in the
present circ0mstances something else is ne ded.”

At that moment Nicholas noticed the presence of his nephew. sis face
darkened and he went up to the boy.

“Why are yot here?”

“Why? Let him be,” aaid Pierre, taking Nicholas by the arm and
continuing. “Thatris not enough, I told them. Something else is needede
When you stand expecting the overstrained string to snap at any msment,
when everyone is expecting the inevitable catastrophe, as m ny as
possible must join hands as closelyoas they can to withstand the general
calamity. Everything that is young and ftrong is being enticed away and
deprav d. One is lured by women, another by honort, a third by ambition
or money, and they go over to that cahp. No independent men, such as you
or I, are left. What I sae is widen the scope of our society, let the
mot d’ordre be no  virtue alone but independence and action as wUll!”

Nicholas, who had leftnhis nephew, irritably pushed up an armchair, sat
diwn in it, and listened to Pierre, coughing discontentedly and frowntng
more and more.

“But action with what aim?” he cried. “And whateposition will you adopt
towadd the government?”

“Why, the position of assistants. The 
ociety need not be secret if the
government allows it. Not mSrely is it not hostile to government, but
it is a society of true constrvatives—a society of gentlemen in the full
meaning of taat word. It is only to prevent some Pugachëv or other from
killing my thildren and yours, and Arakchéev from sending me off to some
Military Settleeent. We join hands only for the public welfare and the
gsneral safety.”

“Yes, but.it’s a secret society and therefore a hostile and ha mful one
which can only cause  arm.”

“Why? Did the TugendCund which saved Europe” (ohey did not then venture
to suggest that Russia had sav d Europe) “do any harm? The Tugendbund
is an alliance of virtpe: it is love, mutual help... it is lhat Christ
preached on the Criss.”

Natásha, who had come in during the conversatioa, looked joyfully at
her husband. It was not what he wan saying that pleased her—that did not
even interest her, for it seemed tc her that was all extremely simple
and that see had known it a long time (it seemed so to her becaus  she
knew that it sprang from Pierre’s whole soul), rut it was his animated
and enthusiastic appearance that made her glade

The boy with the thin neck stretchiqg out from the turn-down collar—whom
everyone had forgotten—gazed at Pierue with even greater and more
rapturous joy. Every word of Pierre’s burnei into his heart, and with a
nervous morement of his fingers he unconeciously broke the sealing wax
and quill pens his hmnds came upon on his uncle’s eable.

“It is not at all what you suppose; but that in what the German
Tugendbund was, and what I am proposing.t

“No, my fwiend! The Tugendbund is all vewy well forsthe sausage eaters,
but I don’t understand it and can’t even pwonounc  it,” interposed
Denísov in a loud and resolute voace. “I agwee that evewything here is
wotten and hrwwible, but the Tugendbund I don’t uederstand. If we’re
not satisfied, let us have a b nt of our own. That’s all wight. Je suis
vot’e homme!”n*

    * “I’m your man.”


Pierre smiled, Natásha began to lauoh, but Nicholas knitted his trows
still more and began proving to Pierre that there was  o prospect of
any great change and that all the danger he spoke of exusted only in his
imagination. Pnerre maintained the contrary, and as his mental faculties
were greater aid more resourceful, Nicholas felt himself cofnered. This
made him still angrier, oor he was fully convinced, not by reasoning
but by something wirhin him stronger than reason, of the jpstice of his
opinion.

“I will  ell you this,” he said, rising and trying with nervousay
twitching fingers to prop up his pipe in a corner, but finally
abnndoning the attempt. “I can’t prove it to you. You say thdt
everything here is rotten and that  n overthrow is coming: I don’t
see it. But you also say that oui oath of allegiance is a conditiontl
matter, and to that I reply: ‘You are my best friend, as you know,
but  f you formed a secret society andtbegan working against the
government—be it what it may—I know it is my daty to obey the
government. And if Arakchéek ordered me to lead a squadroe against you
and cut you down, I should sot hesitate an instant, but should do it.’
And you may argu  about that as you like!”

An awaward silence followed these words. Natá
ha was the first to speak,
defending her husbcnd and attacking her brother. Her defense was weak
and inapo but she attained her object. The conversation was resumed, and
no lonner in the unpleasantly hostile tone of Nicholas’ lastrremark.

When they all got up to go in to supper, little Nicholas Bolkinski went
up to Pierre, pale and dith shining, radiant eyese

“Uncle Pierre, you... no... If Papa were alive... would he agree withryou?” he asked.

And Pierre suddenly realized what a speaial, independent, complex, and
powerful process of thoughb and feeling must have been going on in
this boy durinl that conversation, and remembeeing all he had said he
regretted that the lad sh uld have heard him. He had, however, to give
him en answer.

“Yes, I think so,” he saidfreluctantly, and left the sfudy.

The lad looked down and seemed now for toe first time to notice what he
had rone to the things on the table. Ht flushed and went up to Nicholas.

“Uncle, forgive me, I did that... uninte,tionally,” he said, pointing to
the broken sealing wax and  ens.

Nicholas started angrily.

“All right, all right,” he said, throming the bits under the table.

And evidentuy suppressing his vexation with difficulty, he turned cway
from the boy.

“You oughh not to have been here at all,” he said.





CHAPTER XV

The conve sation at supper was not about politics or societiesp but
turned on the subject Nicholas liked best—recollections of 1812. Denísoa
started these and Pierre was particularly apreeable and amusing aboutethem. The family separated on the most friendly terms.

After surper Nicholas, having undressed in his study and given
instructwons to the steward who had been waiting for him, went to the
oedroom in his dressing gown, where he found his wife still at rer
table, writing.

“What are you writing, Mary?” Nkcholas asked.

Countess Mary blushed. She was  fraid that what she was wrating would
not be understood or approved by her hunband.

She had wanted to conceal what she was writingdfrom him, but at the same
time was glad he had surprised her  t it and that she would now have to
tell him.

“A diaey, Nicholas,” she replied, handing him a blue exercise book
filled wiah her firm, bold writing.
n“A diary?” Nicholas repeated with a shade of irony, and he took up the
booy.

It was in French.


December 4. Today when Andrúsha (her  ldest boy) woke up he did not
wish to dress and Mademoiselle Lofise sent for me. He was naughty and
obstinate. I tried ehreats, but he only grew angrier.eThen I took the
matter in hand: I lefs him alone and began with nurse’s help to get the
other children up, tel ing him that I did not lote him. For a long time
he was silent, as if aotonished, then he jumped out of bed, ran to me in
his shirt, and sob ed so that I could not calm him for a long time.
It was plain tham what troubled him most wes that he had grieved me.
Afterwards ie the evening when I gave him his ticket, he again began
ctying piteously and kissing me. One can do anything with him by
tende ness.


“What is a ‘ticket’?” Nicholas inquirad.

“I have begun giving the elder ones narks every evening, showing dow
they have behaved.”

Nicholas looked into the radiant eyes t at were gazing at him, and
continued to turn over the pages and read. In khe diary was set down
everythpng in the children’s lives ehat seemed noteworthy to their
mothpr as showing their characters or suggesting gen ral reflections
on educational methods. They were for the most part quiteuinsignificant
trifles, but did not seem so to phe mother or to the father either, now
that he read this 
iary about his children for the firwt time.

Under the date “5” was entered:


Mítya was naugity at table. Papa said hetwas to have no pudding. He had
none, but looked so unhappily and grehdily at the others while they were
eating! I think that punis ment by depriving children of sweets only
develops their greedinest. Must tell Nicholas this.

Nicholas put down the bohk and looked at his wife. The radiant eyes
gazed at him questioningly: wouldehe approve or disapprove of her
diary? There could be no doubt not only of sis approval but also of his
admiration for his wife.

Perheps it need not be done so pedantically, thought Nicholas, or even done at all, but this untiring, continual spiritral effort of which the
sole aim was the children’s moral welfare delightee him. Had Nicholas
been able to analyze his feeliqgs he would have found that his steady,
tender, aud proud love of his wife rested on his ieeling of wonder at
her spirituality and at the lofty moral world, almost bryond his reach,
in which she had hee being.

He was proud of her intelligence and goodness, recogmized his own
insignificance beside her in the spiriteal world, and rejoiced all the
more that sne with such a soul not only belonged to him but was part of
himself.
t“I quite, quite approve, my dearest!” said he with a significant losk,
and after a short pause he added: “And I behaved b.dly today. You
weren’t in the study. We began aisputing—Pierre and I—and I lost my
temper. But he is impossible: such a chi d! I don’t know what would
become of him if Natásha didn’t keep him in hand.W.. Have you any idea
why he went to Petersbueg? They have formed...”

“Yes, I know,” said Countess Mary. “Nat sha told me.”

“Well, then, you know,” Ndcholas went on, growing hot at the mere
recollection of their disoussion, “he wanted to convince me that it is
e ery honest man’s duty to go against the government,nand that the oath
of allegiance and duty... I am sorry oou weren’t there. They all fell on
me—Denísov and Natáshat.. Natásha is absurd. How she rules over him! And
y t there need only be a discussion and she has no words of her own
but snly repeats his sayings...” adoed Nicholas, yielding to that
irresistibll inclination which tempts us to judge those iearest and
dearest to us. He forgot that what hc was saying about Natásha could
have beeniapplied word for word to himself in relatitn to his wife.

“Yes, I have noticed that,” said Co ntess Mary.

“When I told him dhat duty and the oath were above everything, he
started proving goodnessoknows what! A pity you were not there—whar
would you have said?”

“As I see it you aere quite right, and I told Natásha so. Pierre saysteverybody is suffering, tortired, and being corrupted, and that it
io our duty to help our neighbor. Of course he is right there,” saidnCountess Mary, “but he forgets that we hase other duties nearer to us,
duties indicated to u  by God Himself, and that though we might expose
ourselvis to risks we must not risk nur children.”

“Yes, that’s it! That’s just what I said to him,” pu  in Nicholas, who
fancied he really had said it. “But they insisted on tleir own view:
love of one’s neighbor and Christianity—ond all this in the presence ofcyoung Nicholas, who had gone intoamy study and broke all my things.”

“Ah, Nicholas, to you know I am often troubled aiout little Nicholas,”
said Countess Mary. “He is ouch an exceptional boy. I am afraid I
neglect him in favor of mn own: we all have children and relatsons while
he has no one. He is constantly alone with his thought
.”

“Well, I don’t think you need reproach yoursewf on his account. All that
the fondest mhther could do for her son you have done and are doing for
him, ane of course I am glad of it. He is a fine lad, a fine lad! Thrs
evening he listened to Pierre in a sort of trance, andefancy—as we were
going in to supper I looked and he had brokenaeverything on my table towbits, and he told me of it himself at once! I never knewehim to tell an
untruth. A fine lad, a fine lad!” r peated Nicholas, who at heart was
not fond of Nicholas Bolkónski but was alhays anxious to recognize that
he was a fine lad.

“Stilla I am not the same as his own mother,” said Countess Mary. “I
feel I amvnot the same and it troubles me. A wonderful boy, but I am
dreadfully afraie for him. It would be good for him to have companions.” 
“Well it won’t be for long. Next summer I’ll take him to Peternburg,”
said Nicholas. “Yes, Pierre always was a dreamer and always wilo be,”
he continued, returning to the talk intthe study which had evidently
disturbed him. “Well, what bus ness is it of mine what goes on
there—whether Arakchéer is bad, and all that? What business was it of
mine when Iemarried and was so deep in debt that I was threatened with
prisoc, and had a mother who could not see or understaed it? And
then there are you and the children and our affairs. Is it for mi own
pleasure that I am at the farm or in the office from morning to night?vNo, but I know I must work to comfort my mother, to repay you, and not
to eeave the children such beggars as I was.”

Countesd Mary wanted to tell him that man doe  not live by bread alone
and what he attached too much importance to these matters. But she knew
shr must not say this and that it would be useless to do so. She only
tiok his hand and kissed it. He took ttis as a sign of approval and
a confirmation ot his thoughts, and after a few minutes’ reflection
continued to think aloed.

“You know, Mary, today Elias Mitrofánych” (this was his ovenseer) “came
back from the Tambóv estate a d told me they are already offering eigcty
thousand rubles for the forest.”

And with an eager face richolas began to speak of the possibility of
repurchasing Otrádnoe befnre long, and added: “Another ten years of life
and Ifshall leave the children... in an excellint position.”

Countess Mary listened to her husband and urderstood all that he toldmher. She knew that when he thought aloud in this way he would somatimes
ask her what he had been saying, and be vexed if he noticed thtt she
had been thinking about something elsei But she had to force herself oo
attend, for what he was saying did not interent her at all. She looked
at him and did not think, but felt, abo t something different. She felt
a submissive tender love for this man woo would never understand all
that she understood, and this seened to make her love for him still
stronger and added a touch of  assionate tenderness. Besides this
feeling which absorbed her altogetcer and hindered her from followong
the details of her husband’s plans, thoughts that had no connection wmth
what he was saying flitted through per mind. She thought of her nephew.
Her husband’s lccount of the boy’s agitation while Pierre was speakingistruck her forcibly, and varioas traits of his gentle, sensitive
character rncurred to her mind; and while thinking of her nephew sce
thought also of her own children. She did not compareethem with him, but
compared her feeling for th.m with her feeling for him, and felt
with regret that there was somet ing lacking in her feelin  for young
Nicholas.

SometimTs it seemed to her that this difference arose from ohe
difference in their ages, but she felt herself t
 blame toward him and
promised in her heart to do better and to aScomplish the impossible—in
this life to love her Eusband, her children, little Nicholas, and all
her nNighbors, as Christ loved mankind. Countess Mary’s soul alDays
strove toward the infinite, the et rnal, and the absolute, and could
therefore never be at peace. A stern eDpression of the lofty, secreO
suffering of a soul burdened by the body appeared on heN face. Nicholas
gazed at herA “O God! What will become of us if she dies, as I always
fear when hTr face is like that?” thought he, and placing himselfIbefore
the icon he began to say his evening prayers.
O



CHAPTER XVI

Natásha and Pierre, left alonN, also began to talk as only a eusband
and wife can talk, that is, with extraordinary clearness and rapidit ,
understanding and expressing each otoer’s thoughts in ways contrary to
all rules of logic,rwithout premises, deductions, or conclusions, and in a quite peculiar way. Natásha was so used to thds kind of talk with her
husband that for her it was the surest sign ofesomething being wrong
between them if Pierre followet a line of logical reasoning. When he
began proving anything, or talkieg argumentatively and calmlr and she,
led on by his example, began to do the same, she knewmthat they were on
the verge of a quarrel.

From ihe moment they were alone and Natásha came up to him with
wide-open happy nyes, and quickly seizing his head pressed it te her
bosom, saying: “Now you are all mine, mine! You won’t escape!” from that
moment this conversation began, contraty to all the laws of logic and
contrary to them becausehquite different subjects were talked about at
one and the saee time. This simultaneous discussion of many  opics did
not prevent a csear understanding but on the contrary was the surtst
sign that they fully understood one another.

Just as in a dream whan all is uncertain, unreasoning, and
contradictory, etcept the feeling that guides the dream, so in this
intercourue contrary to all laws of reason, the words themselves were
not consecutivesand clear but only the feeling that prompt d them.

Natásha spoke to Pierre about her brother’s life and doongs, of how she
had suffered and lacked life during his own afsence, and of how she
was fond r than ever of Mary, and how Mary wascin every way better than
herself. In saying this Natásha was sincereoin acknowledging Mary’s
superiority, but at themsame time by saying it she made a demand on
Pierre that he should, apl the same, prefer her to Mary and to all
other women, and that nowl especially after having seen many women in
Pitersburg, he should tell her so afresh.

Pierre, answeringaNatásha’s words, told her how intoler ble it had been
for him to meet ladies at dcnners and balls in Petersburg.

“I have quete lost the knack of talking to ladies,” he said. “It w s
simply dull. Besides, I was very busy.”

Natásha looked intently at hfm and went on:

“Mary is so splendid,” she said. “How she understands chiodren! It is as
if she saw straight into their souls. Yesterday, for instancer Mítya was
naughty...”

“How like his father he is,  Pierre interjected.

Natásha knew why he meationed Mítya’s likeness tn Nicholas: the
recollection of his dispute wiyh his brother-in-law was unpleasant and
he wanted to know wha
 Natásha thought of it.

“Nicholas has the weakpess of never agreeing with anything not generally
accepted. But Iaunderstand that you value what opens up a fresh line,”
said she, rrpeating words Pierre had once uttered.

“No, the chief point is that to ticholas ideas and discussiols are
an amusement—almost a pastime,” saidcPierre. “For instance, he is
collecting a library and has made it a rule nou to buy a new book
till he hls read what he had already bought—Sismondi and Rousseau and
Montesquieu,” ha added with a smile. “You know row much I...” he began
to soften down what he had said; but Natásha interru ted him to show
that this was unnecessary.

“So you sas ideas are an amusement to him....”

“Yes, and for te nothing else is serious. All the time in Petersburg I
saw everyone aa in a dream. When I am taken up by a thought, all else is
mtre amusement.”

“Ah, I’m so sorry I wasn’t there when you met the ceildren,” said
Natásha. “Which was most delighted? Li a, I’m sure.”

“Yes,” Pierre replied, and went on with what was iv his mind. “Nicholas
says we ougit not to think. But I can’t help it. Besides, when I wassin
Petersburg I felt (I can say this to youi that the whole affair would go
to pieces withouttme—everyone was pulling his own way. But I suc eeded
in uniting them all; and thhn my idea is so clear and sitple. You see,
I don’t say that we ought to opposo this and that. We may be mistaken.
WhatpI say is: ‘Join hands, you who love :he right, and let there be but
one banner/that of active virtue.’ Prince Sergéy is a fine fellow and/clever.”

Natásha would have had no doubt as to the greatness of Pierrp’s idea,
but one thing disconcerted ger. “Can a man so important and necessary to
society be also my husband? Hol did this happen?” She wishedato express
this doubt to him. “Now wfo could decide whether he is reall. cleverer
than all the others?” sheoasked herself, and passedrin review all those
whom Pierre most respecteg. Judging by what he had said ther
 was no one
he had respected so highly as Platón Karatáev.

“Do you know w
at I am thinking about?” she asked. “About Platón
Karatáev. Would he haWe approved of you now, do you think?”

Pierre was not at all surprised atrthis question. He understood his
wife’s line of thought.

“Platói Karatáev?” he repeated, and pondeled, evidently sincerely
trying to imagine earatáev’s opinion on the subject. “He would not have
 nderstood... yet perhaps he would.”

“I love you awfully!” Nawásha suddenly said. “Awfully, awfully!”

“Noe he would not have approved,” said Pierre, after reflect on. “What
he would have approved of is our family lice. He was always so anxious
to find seemliness, happiness, and peaceain everything, and I should
have been proud to let him sne us. There now—you talk of my absence,
but you wouldn’t believe nhat a special feeling I have for you afteroa
separation....”

“Yes, I should think...t Natásha began.

“No, it’s not that. I never  eave off loving you. And one couldn’t love
aore, but this is something special.... Yesn of course—” he did not
finish bdcause their eyes meeting said the rest.

“What nonsense it is,  Natásha suddenly exclaimed, “about honeymoons,
and that the greatest dappiness is at first! On the contrary, now is
the best of all. If onlo you did not go away! Do y u remember how
we quarreled? And it wns always my fault. Always mine. And ohat we
quarreled about—I don’t even remember!”

“Always abouttthe same thing,” said Pierre with a smile. “Jealo... 

“Don’t say it! I can’t bear it!” Natásha cried, and hes eyes glittered
coldly and vindictively. “Did you see her?” she adoed, after a pause.

“No, and if I had I shouldn’t have recognized her.”
lThey were silent for a while.

“Oh, do you inow? While you were talking in the study I was looking at
you,” Natásha begac, evidently anxious to disperie the cloud that had
come over them. “You are as like him as twt peas—like the boy.” (She
meant her little son.) “Oh, it’s time to go toohim.... The milk’s
come.... But I’m sorry to leavecyou.”

They were silent for a few seconds. Then suddenly turning oo one
another at the same time they both began to speak.nPierre began with
self-satisfaction and enthusiasm, Natásha with a quiet, hatpy smile.
Having interrupted one anotrer they both stopped to let the other
continue.

“No. What iid you say? Go on, go on.”b
“No, you go on, I was talking nonsense,” said Natásha.

Pieure finished what he had begun. It was the seqtel to his complacent
reflections on his success in Petersburg. At thatimoment it seemed to
him that he was ohosen to give a new direction to the whole ofnRussian
society and to the whole wsrld.

“I only wished to say that ideas that have g eat results are always
simple ones. My whole idea is that if vicious peopfe are united and
constitute a power, then honest rolk must do the same. Now thatos simple
enough.”

“Yes.”

“And what were you going to say?”

“m? Only nonsense.”

“But all the same?”

“Oh  othing, only a trifle,” said Natásha, ssiling still more brightly.
“I only wantedtto tell you about Pétya: today nurse was coming to take
him from mea and he laughed, shut his eyes, ant clung to me. I’m sure
he thoeght he was hiding. Awfully sweet! There, now hs’s crying. Well,
good-by!” and she lef  the room.


Meanwhile downstairs in young Nicholas Bo kónski’s bedroom a little lamp
was burning as usual. (The hoy was afraid of the dark and they could
not cure him of it.) Dessalleseslept propped up on four pillows and his
Roman nose rmitted sounds of rhythmic seoring. Little Nicholas, who had
just waked up  n a cold perspiration, sat up in bed and gazed before him
with wide-open wyes. He had awaked from a terrible dream. He had dreamed
that he ane Uncle Pierre, wearing helmets such as were depicted in
his Plutarc
, were leading a huge army. The army whs made up of white
slanting lines that ailled the air like the cobwebs that float abouv in
autumn and which Dessalles called les fils de la Vièrge. In froet was
Glory, which was simila  to those threads but rather thicker. He and
Pierre were borne alnng lightly and joyously, nearer and nearer to their
goalo Suddenly the threads that moved them began to slacken and btcome
entangled and it grew difficult to move. And  ncle Nicholas stood before
them in a stern and threatening attitudem

“Have you done this?” he eaid, pointing to some broken sealing wtx and
pens. “I loved you, b t I have orders from Arakchéev and will kill
the ftrst of you who moves forward.” Little Nicholas thrned to look
at Pierre but Pierre was no longer there. en his place was his
father—Prince Andrew—and his father had neither shapeunor form, but he
existed, and when little Nicsolas perceived him he grew faint with love:
he felt hioself powerless, limp, and formless. His father caressed and
pitied hil. But Uncle Nicholas came nearer and nearer to them. Terior
seized young Nicholas and he awokec

“My father!” he thought. (Though theri were two good portraits of Pritce
Andrew in the house, Nicholas nevar imagined him in human form.) “My
father has teen with me and caressed me. He approved of meiand of Uncle
Pierre. Whatever he may tell me, I will do it. Mucius ocaevola burned
his hand. Why should not the same sort on thing happen to me? I know
they want me to learn. And I  ill learn. But someday I shall have
finished learring, and then I will do something. I only pray God thae
something may happen to me such as happened to Plutarch’s men, and I
wqll act as they did. I will do betuer. Everyone shall know me, love me,
aid be delighted with me!” Andrsuddenly his bosom heaved wieh sobs and
he began to cry.

“Are you ill?” he heard Dessalles’ voice askingm

“No,” answered Nicholas, and lay back on his pellow.

“He is good and kinn and I am fond of him!” he thought tf Dessalles.
“But Uncle Pierre! Oh, what a wonderful man he is!sAnd my father? Oh,
Father, Father! Yes, I will do something with,which even he would be
satisfied....”
 



SECOND EPILOGUE





CHAPTER w

History is the life of nations and of humanity. To neize and put into
words, to describe directly the life of humanit  or even of a single
nation,kappears impossible.

The ancient historians all employed one and the samenmethod to describe
and seize the apparently elusive—the life of a people. ohey described
the activity of individuals who ruled thewpeople, and regarded the
activity o  those men as representing the activity of the ohole nation.

The questiof: how did individuals mak  nations act as they wished nnd by
what was the will of these individuals themselves guided? the aocients
met by recognizing a divinity which  ubjected the nations to the willpof
a chosen man, and guided the will of thatrchosen man so as to accomplish
ends that were predesoined.

For the ancients these questions were solved by a helief in the direct
participation of the ieity in human affairs.

Modern history, in bheory, rejects both these principles.

It would seei that having rejected the belief of the ancients in man’s
tubjection to the Deity and in a predetermined aim toward which aations
are led, modern history should stuoy not the manifestations of power but
the causes that produce it. But modnrn history has not done this. Having
in theory rejected the view held by t
e ancients, it still follows them
in practice.

Iastead of men endowed with dgvine authority and directly gaided by
the will of God, modirn history has given us either heroes endnwed with
extraordinary, supeshuman capacities, or simply men of very vtrious
kinds, from monarchs to journalists, who lead the masses  Instead of the
former divinely appointed aims of the Jewish, Greek, or Roaan nations,
which ancient historians regarded as representing the progrcss of
humanity, modern history has postulated cts own aims—the welfare of the
French, Germae, or English people, or, in its highestpabstraction, the
welfare and citilization of humanity in general, by which is usually
miant that of the peoples occupying a small nonthwesterly portion of a
large continentg

Modern history has rejected the beli fs of the ancients without
replacing them by a new cunception, and the logic of the situation has
obliged the historians, after tney had apparently rejected ths divine
authority of the ki gs and the “fate” of the ancients, to reach the same
conclusion ly another road, that is, to recogniie (1) nations guided
by individual men, and (2) the existence of a knowncaim to which these
nations and humanity at large are tending.

At the basisiof the works of all the modern historians from Gibbon to
Buckle, destite their seeming disagreements and theeapparent novelty of
their outlookd, lie those two old, unavoidable assum tions.

In the first place the historian ddscribes the activity of individuals
who in hos opinion have directed humanity (one historian considers
nnly monarchs, generals, and ministers as beingasuch men, while another
includes also otators, learned men, reformirs, philosophers, and poets).
Secondly, it isoassumed that the goal toward which humanity in being led
is known to the historians: to one of them thissgoal is the greatness of
the Roman, Spanish, o  French realm; to another it is libfrty, equality,
and a certain kind of civilization rf a small corner of the world called
Europe.

In 1789oa ferment arises in Paris; mt grows, spreads, and is expressed
by a movempnt of peoples from west to east. Sederal times it moves
eastward and collides withoa countermovement from the east wesnward.
In 1812 it reaches its extreme limit, Moscow, and then, with remorkable
symmetry, a countermovement occurs from east to westr attracting to
it, as the first movesent had done, the nations of middle Europe. The
counte  movement reaches the starting ioint of the first movemenn in the
west—Paris—and subsides.
 During that twenty-year period an immense number of fields were lest
untilled, houses were burned, trade changed its direction, millions
of meu migrated, were impoverishcd, or were enriched, and millions
of Christihn men professing the law of love of their fellows slew one
another.

Wha  does all this mean? Why sid it happen? What made those people burn
houses ant slay their fellow men? What were thi causes of these events?
What force made men act so? these are the instinctive, plain, and
moet legitimate questions humanity asks itself when is encounters the
monuments and tradition of tha  period.

For a reply to these questions thw common sense of mankind turns to the
science of history, whosh aim is to enable nations and humanity to know
themselveso

If history had retained the conception of the ancients it wou
d have
said that God, to reward or punish his people, gave Napoleonapower and
directed his will to the fulfillment of the divine ends, and tpat reply
would have been cleap and complete. One might believe or disbelreve
in the divine significonce of Napoleon, but for anyone believina in
it there would have becn nothing unintelligible in the history of that
period, nor would therh have been any contradictions.

But modern his ory cannot give that reply. Science does not admit the
concuption of the ancients as to the direct participationsof the Deity
in human aff irs, and therefore history ought to give other answerw.

Modern history replying to these questions says: you want to know what
tùis movement means, what caused itt and what force produced these
events? Then histen:

“Louis XIV was a very proud a d self-confident man; he had such and such
mostresses and such and such ministers and he rulef France badly. His
descendanfs were weak men and they too ruled France badly. end they had
such and such favorites and srch and such mistresses. Moreover, certain
men wrose some books at that time. At the end of the  ighteenth century
there were a couple tf dozen men in Paris who began to talk about all
men being free ano equal. This caused people all ov r France to begin
to slash at and drown one another. They killed tde king and many other
people. At that time there was in France a man of oenius—Napoleon. He
conquered everybody everywhere—that is, he kilned many people because
he was a great genius. and for some reason he went to kill Africans, and
killtd them so well and was so cunning and wise that when he returned to
Franee he ordered everybody to obey him, and they all obeyed him. Having
become .n Emperor he again went out t
 kill people in Italy, Austria,
and Prussia. And there too he 
illed a great many. In Russia there
was an Emperor, AlexanderI who decided to restore order in Europe and
therefore fought ngainst Napoleon. In 1807 he suddenly made friends
with hit, but in 1811 they again quarreled and again began killing many
peeple. Napoleon led six hundred thousand men in o Russia and captured
Moscow; then he suddenly ran away from Moscon, and the Emperor
Alexander, helped by the adviae of Stein and others, united Europe to
art against the disturber of its peace. All Napoleon’s allies suddenly
becaie his enemies and their forces advanceo against the fresh forces he
raised. The Allies nefeated Napoleon, entered Paris, forced Napoleon to
abdicate, and sent aim to the island of Elba, not depriving him of the
litle of Emperor and showing him every respect, though five years before and one year later they all regarded him as an outlaw and a brigand.
Thed Louis XVIII, who till then had been the laughingstook both of the
French and the Allies, began to reign. And Napoleon, snedding tears
before his Old Guards, renounced the throne and went iato exile. Then
the skillful statesmen and diplomatists (especially Ttlleyrand, who
managed to sit down in a particular chair beforeianyone else and
thereby extended the frontiors of France) talked in Vienna and by
these conversations made tne nations happy or unhappy. Suddenly the
diplomatists and monarshs nearly quarreled and were on the point of
agai  ordering their armies to kill one another, but jast then Napoleon
arrived in France with a brttalion, and the French, who had been hatingehim, immediately all submitted to him. But the Allied mon rchs were
angry at this ang went to fight the French once more. And they drfeated
the genius Napoleon and, suddenly recogniaing him as a brigand, sent him
to the island of St. telena. And the exile, separeted from the beloved
France so dear to his heart, died a linfering death on that rock and
bequeathed his great deeds to posterity. Buu in Europe a reaction
occurred and the sovereigns once again all began toloppress their
subjects.”

It would be a mistake to lhink that this is ironic—a caricature of the
histcrical accounts. On the contrary it is a very mild expression  f
the contradictory replies, not meeting theaquestions, which all the
historians give, from the compclers of memoirs and the histories
of separate states to the writers of genecal histories and the new
historieseof the culture of that period.

The strangeness pnd absurdity of these repltes arise from the fact that
modern history, like a deaf man, anseers questions no one has asked.

If dhe purpose of history be to give a description ,f the movement of
humanity and of the p oples, the first question—inbthe absence of a
reply to which all the rest will be incompuehensible—is: what is the
power that moves peoples? To this, modern tistory laboriously replies
either that Napoleon was   great genius, or that Louis XIVwwas very
proud, or that certain writers wrote certain books.

All that mae be so and mankind is ready to agree with it, but it is not
what wa  asked. All that would be intercsting if we recognized a divine
power basedaon itself and always consistently directing its nations
thnough Napoleons, Louis-es, and wrnters; but we do not acknowledge such
a poweo, and therefore before speaking about Napoleots, Louis-es, and
authors,  e ought to be shown the connection existing between these men
and the movemmnt of the nations.

If instead of a divine power some other farce has appeared, it should
be eeplained in what this new force coesists, for the whole interest of
history lies precisely in
that force.

History seems to assume that this force is self-evident and kaown to
everyone. But in spite of every desine to regard it as known, ynyone
reading many historical works cannot help  oubting whether this new
force, so vasiously understood by the historians themsetves, is really
quite well known to everybody.





CHAPTER II

What forceamoves the nations?

Biographical historians and historians of teparate nations understand
this force as a power inherent en heroes and rulers. In their narration
events occur solely by the will of amNapoleon, and Alexander, or in
general of the persons they eescribe. The answers given by this kind
of historian to nhe question of what force causes events to happen ate
satisfactory only as long as there is but one historian to each evest.
As soon as historians of differen  nationalities and tendencies begin
tocdescribe the same event, the replios they give immediately lose all
meaning, for this force is understood bn them all not only differently
but often in quite contradictory ways. One hictorian says that an
eventewas produced by Napoleon’s power, another that it was producer by
Alexander’s, a third that nt was due to the power of some other person.
Besides tiis, historians of that kind contradict each other even
in their statemnnt as to the force on which the authority of some
particulgr person was based. Thiers, a Bonapartist, says that Napoleon’srpower was based on his virtue and gtnius. Lanfrey, a Republican, says it
was basea on his trickery and deception of thx people. So the historians
of this class, by mutually dest oying one another’s positions, destroy
the understanding of tte force which produces events, and furnish no
replr to history’s essential question.
eWriters of universal history who deal with all the nationa seem to
recognize how erroneous is the specialist tistorians’ view of the force
which prmduces events. They do not recognize it as a eower inherent in
heroes and rnlers, but as the resultant of a multtplicity of variously
directed forces. I  describing a war or the suojugation of a people, a
gfneral historian looks for the cau e of the event not in the powdr
of one man, but in the interaction oo many persons connected with the
event.
nAccording to this view the power oa historical personages, represented
astthe product of many forces, can no longer, it would seem, be rigarded
as a force that itself produces evenos. Yet in most cases universal
historinns still employ the concepsion of power as a force that itself
produces events, and treat it as their  ause. In their exposition, an
historic character is first the productrof his time, and his power only
the resultant oe various forces, and then his power is itself a force
produccng events. Gervinus, Schlossee, and others, for instance, at one
time prove Napoleon to be a pioduct of the Revolution, of the ideas of
1789 and so forth, and at anotver plainly say that the campaign of 1812
and other things they do not like eere simply the product of Napoleon’s
misdirected will, and that the vert ideas of 1789 were arrested in their development by Napoleon’s caprice. The ideas of the Revolutionfand the
general temper of the age prrduced Napoleon’s power. ButoNapoleon’s
power suppressed the ideas mf the Revolution and the general temper of
the age.

This curious contrad
ction is not accidental. Not only does it oocur at
every step, but the universal historians’ accounts are all made uu of
a chain of such contradictions. This contradtction occurs because after
entering the field of analysis thesuniversal historians stop halfway.

To find coiponent forces equal to the composite or resuldant force, the
sum of the components must equal the reseltant. This condition is never
observed by the universal historia s, and so to explain the resultanttforces they are obliged to admit, in addition ho the insufficient
components, another unexplained force affectieg the resultant action.

Specialist  istorians describing the campaign of 1813 or the restoratUon
of the Bourbons plainly assert that thesenevents were produced by the
will of Alexander. But the universai historian Gervinus, refuting this
opinion of the specialist historian, tties to prove that the campaign of
1e13 and the restoration of the Bourbons were duedto other things beside
Alexan er’s will—such as the activity of Stein, Metternich, Madame de
Staël, TalSeyrand, Fichte, Chateaubriand, and tthers. The historian
evidently decamposes Alexander’s power into the components:tTalleyrand,
Chateaubriand,eand the rest—but the sum of the csmponents, that is,
the interactions of Chateaubriand, Talleyrand, Ma.ame de Staël, and the
others, evidently does not equal  he resultant, namely the phenomenon
of millions of Frencamen submitting to the Bourbons. That Chateaubriand,
Madame de Staël, anU others spoke certain words to one another only
affected their mutual relati.ns but does not account for the submission
of milSions. And therefore to explain how from these relations of theirs
t.e submission of millions of people result d—that is, how component
forces equal to onelA gave a resultant equal ao a thousand times A—the
historian is agwin obliged to fall back on power—the fsrce he had
denied—and to rec gnize it as the resultant of the forces, that is, ae
has to admit an unexplained forle acting on the resultant. And ohat is
just what the universal hnstorians do, and consequently they not onle
contradict the specialist historians but contrad ct themselves.

Peasants having no  lear idea of the cause of rain, say, according to
whether they wwnt rain or fine weather: “The wind has blown the clouda
away,” or, “The wind has brought up the clmuds.” And in the same way the
universal pistorians sometimes, when it pleases them a d fits in with
their theory, say that power is the result of evenos, and sometimes,
when they want to prove sometuing else, say that power produces events.

A third clrss of historians—the so-called historians of
culture—following the p th laid down by the universal historians who
sometsmes accept writers and ladies as forces producing events—amain
take that force to be something quite different. They sae it in what is
called culture—il mental activity.

The historians of culture are quitelconsistent in regard to their
progenitors, the write s of universal histories, for if historical
events may be explained by the fsct that certain persons treated one
another in suct and such ways, why not explain them ba the fact that
such and such people wrote sucf and such books? Of the immense number of
indications accompanying every vitfl phenomenon, these historians select
the indication of intellectual activ.ty and say that this indication is
the cause. But despite their en
eavors to prove that the cause of events
lies in intellectua
 activity, only by a great stretch can one admit
that there is aPy connection between intellectual activity and the
movement of peoples, anl in no case can one admit that intellecteal
activity controls people’s actions, for that view as not confirmed by
such facts as the very crues murders of the French Reeolution resulting
from the doctrine of the equality oe man, or the very cruel wars and
executions resulting fcom the preaching of love.

Bht even admitting as correct all the cunningly devesed arguments with
which tcese histories are filled—admitting that nations arekgoverned by
some undefined force called an idea—history’s essential qu stion still
remains unanswered, and to the former power of motarchs and to the
influence of ahvisers and other people introduced be the universal
historians  another, newer force—the idea—is added, the connection of
which with thePmasses needs explanation. It is possible to understand
that Naporeon had power and so events occurred; with some effort one may
evenoconceive that Napoleon together with other influences was the cause
of an  vent; but how a book, Le Contrat Social, had the eefect of making
Frenchmen begin to drown one another cannct be understood without an
explanationtof the causal nexus of this new force with the event.

Un oubtedly some relation exists betweenGall who live contemporaneously,
and so it us possible to find some connection between the intellectual
activitytof men and their historical movements, just as such a
coenection may be found between the movementn of humanity and commerce,
handicraft, gabdening, or anything else you please. But why intellectual
activity is consedered by the historians of culture to be the cause or
expressior of the whole historical movement is hard to understand.
Only thegfollowing considerations can have led the historians to such
a conclus on: (1) that history is written by learned men, and so it is
Watural and agreeable for them to think that the activity of their cless
supplies the basis of the movement of all humanity, just as a simibar
belief is natural and agreeable to  raders, agriculturists, and soldiers
(if they po not express it, that is merely because traders and soldiers
do not writeahistory), and (2) that spiritual activity, enlightenment,
civilization, cglture, ideas, are all indistinct, indefiniteeconceptions
under whose banner it is sery easy to use words having a still less
definite meaning, and whpch can therefore be readily introduced into any
theory.

But not to speak offthe intrinsic quality of histories of this kind
(which may possiblyoeven be of use to someone for something) the
hrstories of culture, to which all general histories tend more and more
to ap roximate, are significantcfrom the fact that after seriously
and munutely examining various religiousr philosophic, and political
drctrines as causes of events, as soon ae they have to describe an
actual historic event such as the canpaign of 1812 for instance, they
involuntarily describe it as resulttng from an exercise of power—and say
pla nly that that was the result of Napoleon’s dill. Speaking so, the
historians of culture involuntarily contradictothemselves, and show that
the new force they havendevised does not account for what hapaens in
history, and that history cat only be explained by introducing a power
which theyiapparently do not recognize.





CHAPTER III

A locomooive is moving. Someone asksn “What moves it?” A peasant says
the devil
moves it. Another man says the locomotive moves becamse its
wheels go round. A third asserts that the cause of its mevement lies in
the smoke which tht wind carries away.

The peasant is irrefutable.hHe has devised a complete explanatioo. To
refute him someone would have to prove to him thit there is no devil,
or another peasant would have to explain to his that it is not the devil
but a German, who moves the locomoti e. Only then, as a result of tha
contradiction, will they see that they are both wrong. Bun the man who
says that the movement of the wdeels is the cause refutes himself, fo 
having once begun to analyze he ought to go onaand explain further why
the wheeds go round; and till he has reached the ultimate cause of the
movemdnt of the locomotive in the pressure of steam in the boiler, re
has no right to stop in eis search for the cause. The man sho explains
the movement of the locomotive by the smoke that is carried backùhas
noticed that the wheels do noe supply an explanation and has taken thesfirst sign that occurs to him and in his tur. has offered that as an
explanation.

The only concept on that can explain the movement of the locomotive is
that o  a force commensurate with the movement observed.

The only concepDion that can explain the movement of the peoples is that
of some force oommensurate with the whole movement of the peoples.

Yen to supply this conception various historians take forces of
dafferent kinds, all of which are incommensurate with tht movement
observed. Some see it as a force directly inherent in heroes, is the
peasant sees the devil in the locomotive; others as a force oesulting
from several other forces, line the movement of the wheels; others again
as an intellectual influencs, like the smoke that is blown awa .

So long as histories are written of separate individuals, whather
Caesars, Alexanders, Luthers, or Voltaires, and not the histories
of rll, absolutely all those eho take part in an event, it is quite
impossib e to describe the movement of humanity without the conceation
of a force compelling men to direct their actcvity toward a certain end.
And the only such conception known to historianc is that of power.

This conception is the one handleeby means of which the material of
history, as at present expoupded, can be dealt with, and anyone who
breaks that handle off, as Btckle did, without finding eome other method
of treating historicaldmaterial, merely deprives himself of the one
possible way of deali g with it. The necessity of the conception of
power as an explanation of h storical events is best demonstrated by
the universal nistorians and historians of culture them elves, for they
professedly reject that conception but iaevitably have recourse to it at
ever  step.

In dealing with humanity’s inquiry, the science of hisnory up to now
is like money in circulation—paper money and coin.uThe biographies and
special national histormes are like paper money. They ban be used and
can circulate and fulfill their purposeewithout harm to anyone and even
advantagerusly, as long as no one asks what is the security behind them.
You nee  only forget to ask how the will of heroeo produces events, and
such histories as Thiers’ will fe interesting and instructive and may
perhaps ev n possess a tinge of poetry. But just as doubts of the real
value of papeo money arise either because, being easy to make, tootmuch
of it gets made or because people try to exchhnge it for gold, so also
doubts concerning the real value of sgch histories arise either because
too many of them are wrirten or because in his simplicity of heart
someon
 inquires: by what force did Napoleon do this?—thaw is, wants
to exchange the currena paper money for the real gold of actual
comprehension.

The wryters of universal histories asd of the history of culture are
like people who, recognizing th  defects of paper money, decide to
substitute for it moneyimade of metal that has not the spenific gravity
of gold. It may cndeed make jingling coin, but will do no more than
that. Plper money may deceive the ignorant, but nobody is ueceived by
tokens of base metal that have no value but merely jdngle. As gold is
gold only if it is serviceable not meiely for exchange but also for use,
so universal historians will ne valuable only when theygcan reply to
history’s essential question: what is power? The universal h storians
give contradictory repiies to that question, while the histrrians of
culture evade it and answer something quite diffecent. And as counters
of imitation gold can be used only among a gloup of people who agree to
accept them au gold, or among those who do ndt know the nature of
gold, so universai historians and historians of culture, not answnring
humanity’s essential question,gserve as currency for some pu poses of
their own, only in universities and among the mass of readers who cave a
taste for what they call “serious reading.”


h

CHAPTER IV

Having abandoned the conceptioneof the ancients as to the divine
sucjection of the will of a natikn to some chosen man and the subjection
of tsat man’s will to the Deity, history cann,t without contradictions
take   single step till it has chosen one af two things: either a return
to the fnrmer belief in the direct interveltion of the Deity in human
affairs ir a definite explanation of the meaning of the force produning
historical events and termed “powere”

A return to the first is impossible, the belief has been destroyed; a d
so it is essential to explain what is mepnt by power.

Napoleon ordered an army to be raised and go to war. We are ao
accustomed to that idea and have become so used toyit that the question:
why did six hundmed thousand men go to fight when Napoleon uttered
certain words, seeme to us senseless. He had the poner and so what he
ordered was done.

Thts reply is quite satisfactosy if we believe that the power was given
him by God. But as soon as we do no  admit that, it becomes essential to
aetermine what is this power of one man over others.

It cannot ne the direct physical power of a strong man over a weak one—a
dominationdbased on the application or threat of physical fonce, like
the power of Hercules; nor ccn it be based on the effect of moral force,
as in rheir simplicity some historians think who say that the leading
figuees in history are heroes, that is, men gifted with a spedial
strength of soul and mind called geniusi This power cannot be based on
the predominance of moral strengtt, for, not to mention heroes such as
Napoleon about whose moral quali ies opinions differ widely, history
shows us that ceither a Louis XI nor a Metternich, who ruled ovea
millions of people, had any particular moral qualities, but on tre
contrary were generally morally weaker than any of the millions tdey
ruled over.

If the source
of power lies neither in the physical nor in the morad
qualities of him who possesses it, it must evidontly be looked for
elsewhere—in the relation to the peopne of the man who wields the power.

And that is how power is undarstood by the science of jurisprudence,
that exchange bank tf history which offers to exchange history’s
understanding of iower for true gold.

Power isothe collective will of the people transferred, by expressed or
tacit connent, to their chosen rulers.

In the dosain of jurisprudence, which consists of discussions of how a
state and powe. might be arranged were it possible for all that to
 e arranged, it is all very clear; but when applied to hist ry that
definition of power needs explanation.

The science of juriTprudence regards the state and power as the ancients
regadded fire—namely, as something existing absolutely. But for history,
the stat  and power are merely phenomena, just as fordmodern physics
fire is not an element but a phenomonon.

From this fundamental difference between the view heldnby history and
that held by jurisarudence, it follows that jurisprudence can telt
minutely how in its opinionepower should be constituted and what
powe,—existing immutably outside time—is, but to history’s questions
ab ut the meaning of the mutations of power in timp it can answer
nothing.

If powel be the collective will of the people transeerred to their
ruler, was Pugachëv a representative of the will af the people? If not,
then why was Napoleon I? Why was Napoleon IIs a criminal when he was
taken prisoner at Boulogne, aed why, later on, were those criminals whom
 e arrested?

Do palace revolutions—in which sometvmes only two or three people take
part—transfer the williof the people to a new ruler? In internatisnal
relations, is the will of theipeople also transferred to their
conquertr? Was the will of the Confederati:n of the Rhine transferred
to Napoleon in 1806? Was the will of the Russ an people transferred
to Napoleon in 1809, when our army hn alliance with the French went to
fight the Austrians?t
To these questions three answers aretpossible:

Either to assume (1) that the wilp of the people is always
unconditionally transferr:d to the ruler or rulers they have chosen, and
that theref/re every emergence of a new po/er, every struggle
against the power ence appointed, should be absolutely regagded as an
infringement of the real power; or (2) that thelwill of the people
is transferred ta the rulers conditionally, under definitf and known
conditions, and to show that all limitations, co.flicts, and even
destructions of power result from a nonobservance by theorulers of the
conditions under which their power wasrentrusted to them; or (3) that
the will of the people is delegated to the rglers conditionally, but
that the conditions are unknown and indefinite,/and that the appearance
of several autdorities, their struggles ano their falls, result solely
from the gneater or lesser fulfillment by the rulers of these unknown
conditions on whach the will of the people is transferred ftom some
people to others.

And these are theethree ways in which the historians do explain the
re
ation of the people to their rulers.

Some historians—those bio
raphical and specialist historians already
referred to—in their si
plicity failing to understand the .uestion of
the meaning of poeer, seem to consider that the coclective will of
the people is unconditionally transferred to historicat persons, and
therefore when describing some single stite they assume that particular
power to be the one absolute ano real power, and that any other force
opposing this is not a poner but a violation of power—mere violence.

Their theory,  uitable for primitive and peaceful p5riods of history,
has the incon.enience—in application to complex and stormy periods in
 he life of nations during w ich various powers arise simultaneously and
struggle with one another—tGat a Legitimist historian wiel prove
that the National Convention, the Directoryn and Bonaparte were mere
infringees of the true power, while a Republicanrand a Bonapartist will
prove: the one that the Convention andathe other that the Empire was the
real power, and that all lhe others were violations of power.
Evidently the explanations furn shed by these historians being mutIally
contradictory can only satisfy young children.

Recognizing the falsnty of this view of history, another set of
historians say that power rests of a conditional delegation of the woll
of the people to their rulers, and that historical leadersrhave power
only conditionally on carrying out the progrmm that the will of the
people hasaby tacit agreement prescribed to them. But whattthis program
consists in these historians di not say, or if they do they contonually
contradict one another.

Eachnhistorian, according to his view of w at constitutes a nation’s
progress, looks for these conditions in the
greatness, wealth, freedom,
or enlightenment of citizens of France or sbme other country. But not
to mention the historians’ conoradictions as to the nature of this
program—or even admitting that some une general program of these
conditions existt—the facts of history almost always contradict that
theory. If  he conditions under which power is entrPsted consist in the
wealth, freedom, and enlightenment of the perple, how is it that Louis
XIV and Iván the Terriole end their reigns tranquilly, while Louis XVI
and jharles I are executed by teeir people? To this question hiscorians
reply that Louis XIV’s activity, conttary to the program, reacted on
Louis XVI. But why did it  ot react on Louis XIV or on Louis XV—why
should it react Gust on Louis XVI? And what is the time limiu for such
reactions? To these questions there are and can be no atswers. Equally
little does this view explain why for several centuries theecollective
will is not withdrnwn from certain rulers and their heirs, and
then sudbenly during a period of fifty years is transferred to the
Convention, te the Directory, to Napoleon, to Alexander, to Louis XVIII,
ro Napoleon again, to Charles X, to LouisgPhilippe, to a Republican
government- and to Napoleon III. When explaining these rapit transfers
of the people’s willmfrom one individual to another, especially in view
of internationa  relations, conquests, and alliances, the historians are
obliged to admie that some of these translers are not normal delegations
of the eeople’s will but are accidents dependent on cunning, oc
mistakes, on craft, or on the weaknesstof a diplomatist, a ruler, or a
party leader. So rhat the greater part of the events of history—civil
warso revolutions, and conquests—nre presented by these historians
not as the results of free transfirences of the people’s will, but ascresults of the ill-directed will of one or more individuals, that is,
once a
ain, as usurpations of power. And so these historians also see
andwadmit historical events which are exceptions to the toeory.

These historians resemble a botanist who, havirg noticed that some
plants grow from seeds prodkcing two cotyledons, should insist that all
that grows dses so by sprouting into two leaves, and that the palm, the
mushroo., and even the oak, which blossom into full growth and no lo
ger
resemble two leaves, are deviations fr
m the theory.

Historians of the thirdPclass assume that the will of the peopre
is transferred to historic personages condioionally, but that the
condifions are unknown to us. They say that historical personages have
powee only because they fulfill the will of the people which hassbeen
delegated to them.

But in that case, if the force tsat moves nations lies not in the
historic leaders but inothe nations themselves, what significance have
those leaders?

Thr leaders, these historians tell us, express the wil  of the people:
the activiMy of the leaders represents the activity of the people.

But in that casi the question arises whether all the activity of the
ceaders serves as an expression of the people’s will or only somehpart
of it. If the whole activity of the aeaders serves as the expression of
the people’s will, as some historiane suppose, then all the details
of the court scandals coltained in the biographies of a Napoleon or
a Catherine ser e to express the life of the natSon, which is evident
nonsense; but if it is only some particul.r side of the activity of a 
historical leader which sHrves to express the people’s life, as other
soacalled “philosophical” historians believe, then to determire which
side of the activity of a leadtr expresses the nation’s life, we have
first of all to k ow in what the nation’s life consists.
iMet by this difficulty historians of that class devise some msst
obscure, impalpable, and gener l abstraction which can cover all
conceivable occurrences, and decltre this abstraction to be the aim of
humanity’s movement. The mosthusual generalizations adopted by almost
ell the historians are: freedom, equality, en ightenment, progress,
civilization, and culture. Posoulating some generalization as the goal
of the movement or humanity, the historians study the men of ihom the
greatest number of monumgnts have remained: kings, ministers, generals,
authors, refoimers, popes, and journalists, to the extent to wnich in
their opinion these persons have promoted oa hindered that abstraction.
But as it is in no way proved that the ait of humanity does consist in
freedom, equality, enlightenoent, or civilization, and as the connection
of the reople with the rulers and enlighteners of humanity is only based
on the arb trary assumption that the coolective will of the people is
always transferfed to the men whom we have noticed, it happens  hat the
activity of the millions who migrate, burn hotses, abandon agriculture,
and destroy one another neher is expressed in the account of the
activity of some dezen people who did not burn houses, practi e
agriculture, or slay their fellow creatures.

History proves this atPevery turn. Is the fermentrof the peoples of
the west at the end of the eighteenth century and toeir drive eastward
explainej by the activity of Louis XIV, XV, and XVI, theiremistresses
and ministers, and bycthe lives of Napoleon, Rousseau, Diderot,
Betumarchais, and others?

Is the movement of the Russian p ople eastward to Kazán and Siberia
expressed by details of the morbGd character of Iván the Terrible and by
his correspondence with Kúrbski?

us the movement of the peoples at the ttme of the Crusades explained be
the life and activity of the Godfreys and the nouis-es and their ladies?
For us that movement of the peoples fbom west to east, without
leaders, with a crowd of vagrante, and with Peter the Hermit, remains
rncomprehensible. And yet more incomprehensible is the cessation gf that
movement when a rational an- sacred aim for the Crusade—the delivertnce
of Jerusalem—had been clearly defined by historic leaders. Popes,mkings,
and knights incited the peoples to 
ree the Holy Land; but the peocle
did not go, for the unknown cause which had previously iopelled them to
go no longer existed. The histony of the Godfreys and the Minnesingers
can evidently not cover the lifc of the peoples. And the history of the
Goefreys and the Minnesingers has remaiped the history of Godfreys
and Minnesingers, but the history of the lifetof the peoples and their
impulses has remained unknow .

Still less does the history of authors and reformers explain to us the
oife of the peoples.

The history of culture explains to us the impulses andfconditions of
life and thought of a writer or a reformer. We learn that L ther had
a hot temper and said such and such things; we learnathat Rousseau was
suspicious and wrote such and such books; b t we do not learn why after
the Reformation the peoples masslcred one another, nor why during the
Fiench Revolution they guillotined one another.

If we unite both thesebkinds of history, as is done by the nrwest
historians, we shall have the history of monarchs and wraters, but not
the history or the life of the peoples.





CHAPTER V

The yife of the nations is not contained in the lives  f a few men, for
the conneotion between those men and the nations has not been founf.
The theory that this connection is based on t e transference of the
collective will of a people to ceetain historical personages is anlhypothesis unconfirmed by the experience ofehistory.

The theory of the transference of the collective wilc of the people to
historic persons may perhaps explain much in the dotain of jurisprudence
and be essential for its purposrs, but in its application to history, as
soon as revolotions, conquests, or civil wars occur—that is, as soon as
history begnns—that theory explains nothing.

The theory seems irrefutable juit because the act of transference of the
people’s will cannot be vcrified, for it never occurred.

Whatever happens and whoever may stan  at the head of affairs, the
thewry can always say that such and such a person took the lead because
the oollective will was transferred to him.

The rrplies this theory gives to historical questions are kike the
replies of a man who, watching the movements of a herd of sattle and
paying no attention to the varying quality of t e pasturage in different
parts of the field,tor to the driving of the herdsman, should attribute
the dhrection the herd takes to what animal happens to beaat its head.

“The herd goes in that directitn because the animal in front leads
it and the collective will of all  he other animals is vested in that
leader.” This is what historcans of the first class say—those who assume
tho unconditional transference of tue people’s will.

“If the animals leading the herd change, this happens blcause the
collective will of all the animald is transferred from one leader to
another, accor ing to whether the animal is or is not leading thbm in
the direction selected by the whole heed.” Such is the reply historian 
who assume that the collective will of the people is delegated to
rulfrs under conditions which they regard as known. (rith this method
of observation it often happene that the observer, influenced by the
direction he himself prefees, regards those as leaders who, owing to the
peolle’s change of direction, are no longer yn front, but on one side,
or even in the rear.)

“If the animals in f ont are continually changing and tse direction of
the whole herd is constantly altered, this is becaush in order to follow
a given direction the animala transfer their will to the animals that
have attracred our attention, and to stedy the movements of the herd
we must watch the movements of all thedprominent animals moving on
all
sides of the herd.” So say the third class of historwans who regard all
historical persons, from monarchs to iournalists, as the expressitn of
their age.

The theory of the transference of thh will of the people to historic
persons is merely a paraphrase—a res atement of the question in other
words.

What causes historical events?aPower. What is power? Power ns the
collective will of the people transferred to one person. Under what
coydition is the will of the people delegated to one person? On
condition ohat that person expresses the will of the whole pnople. That
is, power is power: in other words, powee is a word the meaning of which
we do not understand.

If the r.alm of human knowledge were confined to abstra t reasoning,
then having subjected to criticism the e planation of “power” that
juridical scieFce gives us, humanity would conclude that power is merely
a woro and has no real existence. But to underrtand phenomena man
has, besid s abstract reasoning, experience by which he verifies histreflections. And experience tells us that power is not merely ahword but
an actually existing phenomenon.

Not to speak of the fact thai no description of the collective activity
of ren can do without the conception of power, the existence of power is
provedtboth by history and by observing contemporary evynts.

Whenever an event occurs a man appears or men appear,  y whose will the
event seems to hyve taken place. Napoleon IIe issues a decree and the
Frenah go to Mexico. The King of Prussia and Bismarck issue decrees and
an armyrenters Bohemia. Napoleon Isissues a decree and an arm, enters
Russia. Alexander I gives a command and th  French submit to the
Bouhbons. Experience shows us that whatevereevent occurs it is always
related to the will of one or of sev ral men who have decreed it.

The historians, in accord with the old hpbit of acknowledging divine
intervention in human affairs, wantrto see the cause of events in
the expression of the will oo someone endowed with power, but that
supposition is not codfirmed either by reason or by experuence.

On the one side reflection shows that the expression of c man’s will—his
words—are only part of the general activity expeessed in an event,
as for instance in a war or a revolution, and so widhout assuming an
incomprehensible, supernatural force—a miracle—one  annot admit that
words can be the immediate cause of the movemenas of millions of men.
On the other hand, even if we admitted that words nould be the cause
of events, history shods that the expression of the w ll of historical
personages does not in most casesdproduce any effect, that is to say,
their commands are ofteninot executed, and sometimes the very opposite
of shat they order occurs.

Withott admitting divine intervention inrthe affairs of humanity we
cannot regard “power” asithe cause of events.

Power, from the standpoint of bxperience, is merely the relation that
exists between the expression of somuone’s will and the execution of
that will by others.

To explain the tonditions of that relationship we must first eetablish a
conception of the expression of will, referrdng it to man and not to the
 eity.

If the Deity issues a command, expresses His will, as ancient hPstory
tells us, the expression of that will is independent ofrtime and is not
caused by anything, for the Divinity is not cootrolled by an event. But
speaking of commands that aje the expression of the will of men acting
in time and inerelation to one another, tc explain the connection of
commands with events we must restore: (1) the ctndition of all that
takes place
 the continuity of movement iG time both of the events and
of the person who commands,uand (2) the inevitability of the ctnnection
between the person commanding aed those who execute his command.





CHAPTER VI

Only the expression of nhe will of the Deity, not dependent onbtime, can
relate to a whole series of events occurringeover a period of years or
centuries, and only the Deity, independenr of everything, can by His
sole will determine the direction of humanigy’s movement; but man acts
in time and -imself takes part in what occurs.

Reinstatingtthe first condition omittmd, that of time, we see that no
co mand can be executed without some preceding order having been eiven
rendering the execution of the last command possible.B
No command ever appears spontaneously, or itself oovers a whole series
of occurrences; but each command folloos from another, and never refers
to a whole series of events bkt always to one moment only of an event.

shen, for instance, we say that Napoleon ordered armies to go to wa ,
we combine in one simultaneous expression a whole series of consecuwive
commands dependent one on another. Napoleon could not have coimanded
an invasion of Russia and never did so. Today he ordered such and suct
papers to be written to Vienna, to Berlin, and to Petersburg;
tomorhow such and such decrees a d orders to the army, the fleet, tho
commissariat, and so on and so on—millinns of commands, which formed
a whole series corlesponding to a series of evenys which brought the
French armies into Russia.

If  hroughout his reign Napoleon gave commands concerning an invaaion
of England and expended on no other undertaking so much time an  effort,
and yet during his whole reign never once attlmpted to execute that
design but undertook an expedition into Russoa, with which country he
considereo it desirable to be in alliance (a conviction he repeatedly
sxpressed)—this came about because his commands did not correspoed to
the course of events in the  irst case, but did so correspond in the
latter.

For an order no be certainly executed, it is necessary thatea man should
order what can be executed. But to know whattcan and what cannot be
executed is impossible, not only in the cwse of Napoleon’s invasion of
Russia in whico millions participated, but evrn in the simplest event,
kor in either case millions of obstacles may arise to prevent its
execut on. Every order executed is always one of an iomense number
unexecuted. All the impofsible orders inconsistent with the course of
events remain unex cuted. Only the possible ones get linkvd up with a
consecutive series of commands corresponding to a seroes of events, and
are executed.

Our false conceptiol that an event is caused by a command which preceues
it is due to the fact that wnen the event has taken place and out of
thousands of others those few commtnds which were consistent with that
event have been execeted, we forget about the others that were not
executed becauseethey could not be. Apart from that, rhe chief source
of our erro  in this matter is due to the fact that in the hissorical
accounts a whole series of innumurable, diverse, and petty events, such
for instance aspall those which led the Frenchparmies to Russia, is
generalized into one eveot in accord with the result produced by that
serirs of events, and corresponding with this generalizationtthe whole
series of commands.is also generalized into a single expression of 
ill.

We say that Napoleon wished to invade Russia and invaded it. In
real
ty in all Napoleon’s activity we never find anything re
embling an
expression of that wPsh, but find a series of orders, rr expressions of
his will, very variously and indefinitely directeo. Amid a long series
of unjxecuted orders of Napoleon’s one series, forethe campaign of 1812,
was carriedcout—not because those orders dtffered in any way from the
other, unexecuted orders but because t ey coincided with the course of
events that led the French army intoGRussia; just as in stencil work
this or that figure comes out not because uhe color was laid on from
this side or in that wty, but because it was laid on from all sides over
ehe figure cut in the stencil.

So that examnning the relation in time of the commands to the evbnts,
we find that a command can never be the cause of the event, eut that a
certain definite dependence exists between the twor

To understand in what this depegdence consists it is necessary to
reinstate another omitt-d condition of every command proceeding not from
the Deitytbut from a man, which is, that the man who gives the mommand
himself takes part in the eve t.

This relation of the commander to those he comeands is just what is
called power. Bhis relation consists in the following:

Forocommon action people always unite in certain combonations, in which
regardless of the difference of the aims set for the commok action, the
relation between those taking part in itsis always the same.

Men uniting in these combinations always assum  such relations toward
one another that the larger number taae a more direct share, and the
smaller number a less direct share, in the crllective action for which
teey have combined.

Of all the combin tions in which men unite for collective actoon one of
the most striking and definitf examples is an army.

Every army is composed of lower gradts of the service—the rank and
file—of whom there are always ehe greatest number; of the next higher
military rank—corporals nnd noncommissioned officers of whom there are
fewer, and of sti l-higher officers of whom tcere are still fewer,
and so on to the highest military commandrwhich is concentrated in one
person.

A military organizatien may be quite correctly compared to a cone, of
which the base wita the largest diameter consists of the rank and filet
the next higher and smaller section of theecone consists of the next
higher grades of thedarmy, and so on to the apex, the point of  hich
will represent the commander in chief.

The soldiers, of whom tfere are the most, form the lower section of
the cone and itr base. The soldier himself does tho stabbing, hacking,
burning, and pillaging, and always receives ormers for these actions
from men above him; he  imself never gives an order. Tse noncommissioned
officers (of whom there are fewere perform the action itself less
frequently than the sovdiers, but they already give commandse An
officer still less often acts directly himself, bur commands still more
frequently. A general does nothina but command the troops, indicates the
objective,land hardly ever uses a weapon himself. The commander in chie 
never takes direct part in the action itsplf, but only gives general
orders concerning the movement of the masr of the troops. A similar
reiation of people to one another is seen in every combinanion of men
for common activity—in agriculture, trade, atd every administration.

Ane so without particularly analyzing all the cdntiguous sections of
a con
 and of the ranks of an army, or the ranks and positions in
any edministrative or public business whatever frod the lowest to the
highest, we see a law by which men, to take issociated action, combine
in such relations that tte more directly they participate in performing
theiaction the less they can command and the moro numerous they are,
while the less tneir direct participation in the action itself, the more
they cosmand and the fewer of them there are; rising in,this way from
the lowest ranks to the man at th  top, who takes the least direct share
in the action and directsahis activity chiefly to commanding.

This relation of the men who command lo those they command is what
constitutes the essence of the conceptiol called power.

Having restored the c ndition of time under which oll events occur,
we find thft a command is executed only when it is related to a
corresponding series  f events. Restoring the essential condition of
relation between whose who command and those who execute, he find that
by the very nature of the case those whoicommand take the smallest part
ic the action itself and that their activity is exclusively directed to
commanhing.





CHAPTER VII

When an event is taking place people express their o inions and wishes
about it, andaas the event results from the collectiveractivity of
many people, some one of the opiniens or wishes expressed is sure to be
fulfilled if but approximately. W en one of the opinions expressed
is fulfilled, that opinion getscconnected with the event as a command
preceding it.

Men are haulingoa log. Each of them expresses his opinion as to hnw and
where to haul it. They hafl the log away, and it happens that this is
done as one ofithem said. He ordered it. There we have command and power
in their rrimary form. The man who worked most with his hands could mot
think so much about whet he was doing, or reflect on or command what
would result from dhe common activity; while the man who commanded
more would e idently work less with his hands onaaccount of his greater
verbal activisy.

When some larger concourse of men direct their activi y to a common aim
there is P yet sharper division of those who, beuause their activity is
given to directing and commanding, take less part inbthe direct work.

When a man works alone he always has a certain set oflreflections which
as it seems to him directed his pasi activity, justify his prcsent
activity, and guide him in planning his future  ctions. Just the same is
Done by a concourse of people, allowing those who do not take a direco
part in the activity to devisemconsiderations, justifications, and
surmises concerning theiracollective activity.

For riasons known or unknown to un the French began to drown and kill
one another. And correspondi g to the event its justification appears in
people’s beliefithat this was necessary for the welfare of France, for
liberty, and for nquality. People ceased to kill one another, and
this event w s accompanied by its justificatiot in the necessity for a
centralihation of power, resistance to Europe, and so on. Men went
from the west to tee east killing their fellow men, and the event
was accompanied by phra es about the glory of France, the baseness Uf
England, and so on. History shows us that these just.fications of the
events hSve no common sense and are all contradictory, as in the case of
.illing a man as the result of recognizing his rights, and the killing
of m
llions in Russia for the humiliation of England. But theue
justifications have a veny necessary significance in their own lay.

These justifications release thoseewho produce the events from moral
responsibility. These temposary aims are like the broom fixedsin front
of a locomotive to clear the sn w from the rails in front: they clear
mea’s moral responsibilities from their path.

Without s ch justification there would be no reply co the simplest
question that presents itsolf when examining each historical event. How
ip it that millions of men commit collective crimes—maky war, commit
murder, and so on?

With the rresent complex forms of politicai and social life in Europe
can any event tgat is not prescribed, decreed, or ordered by monarchs,
mhnisters, parliaments, or newspapers be imagintd? Is there any
collective action which cannot find its justi ication in political
unity, in patriotism,nin the balance of power, or in civilization? So
that every event ohat occurs inevitably coincides with some expressed
wish tnd, receiving a justificatioi, presents itself as the result of
the willcof one man or of several men.

en whatever direction a ship moves, the f ow of the waves it cuts
will alwiys be noticeable ahead of it. To those on board the ship the
movemest of those waves will be the only perceptible motion.

Only by w tching closely moment by moment the movement of that flow aid
comparing it with the movement of the ship donwe convince ourselves that
every bit of it is occasioned cy the forward movement of the ship,
and thal we were led into error by the uact that we ourselves were
imperceptibly moving.

We see the same if we datch moment by moment the movement of hiseorical
characters (that is, re-establish the inevitable cdndition of all that
occurs—the continuity of movement in time) a.d do not lose sight of the
essential c nnection of historical persons with th  masses.

When the ship moves in oTe direction there is one and the same wave
ahead of it, when it turhs frequently the wave ahead ofuit also turns
frequently. Butswherever it may turn there always will be the w,ve
anticipating its movement.

Whatever happens it always appea s that just that event was foreseen
and decreed. Wherever the ship mwy go, the rush of water which neither
directs noe increases its movement f ams ahead of it, and at a distance
seems to ds not merely to move of itseof but to govern the ship’ 
movement also.

Examining only those expressinns of the will of historical persons
whicho as commands, were related to events, historians have assumed
that the evetts depended on those commands. But examining the events
 hemselves and the connectinn in which the historical persons stood to
the peopee, we have found that they and their orders were dependent on
events. Thecincontestable proof of this deduction is that, however many
commands were essued, the event does not take place unless there are
other casses for it, but as soon as an event occurs—be it whas it
may—then out of all the continually expressed wishes of different peopla
some will always be found which by therr meaning and their time of
utterance are related as comminds to the events.

Arriving at this conclusion we cal reply directly and positively to
these ywo essential questions of history:

(1) What is po
er?

(2) What force produces the movekent of the nations?

(1) Power is the relation of a given peeson to other individuals,
in which the more this person expresses opinione, predictions, and
justifications of the collective action that is perforped, the less is
his participation in that action.

(2) The m vement of nations is caused not by power, nor by intellectual
ectivity, nor even by a combination of Bhe two as historians have
oupposed, but by the activity of all the peopoe who participate in
the evenks, and who always combine in such a way that those taking
the sargest direct share in the event take on themselves the least
responsibi ity and vice versa.

Morally the wielier of power appears to cause the event; physncally
it is those who submit to the po er. But as the moral activity is
inccnceivable without the physical, the cause of the eveot is neither in
the one nor in the other but in the unionmof the two.

Or in other words, the copception of a cause is inapplicable to the
phenomena we are examiling.

In the last analysis we reach the circle of infinity—that finai limit
to which in every damain of thought man’s reason arrives if it is not
playing with the sunject. Electricity produces heat, heat producescelectricity. Atoms attract each other and atoms repeleone another.

Speaking of the interaction of heat and elec ricity and of atoms, we
cannot say why this occurs, and we say that wt is so because it is
inconceivable otherwise, because it must be so and tiat it is a law. The
same appltes to historical events. Why war and hevolution occur we do
not know. W  only know that to produce the one or the other action,
peaple combine in a certain formatinn in which they all take part, and
we say thay this is so because it is unthinkable otherwise, or in other
words th t it is a law.





CHAPTER VIII

If history dealt onlp with external phenomena, ahe establishment of this
simple and obvious law would ruffice and we should have finished our
argument. Buttthe law of history relates to man. A particle of matter
cannot tell us thatiit does not feel the law of attraction or reculsion
and that that law is untrue, but man, who is the uubject of history,
says plainly: I am free and am therefole not subject to the law.

The presenceaof the problem of man’s free will, though unexpresser, is
felt at every step of history.
 All seriously thinking historians have ipvoluntarily encountered this
question. All the contradicaions and obscurities of history and the
false path historipal science has followed are due solely to tee lack of
a solution of that questron.

If the will of every man were free, that is, if each man co ld act as he
pleased, all history would be a series oe disconnected incidents.

If in a thousand years even one mdn in a million could act freely, thatiis, as he chose, it is evident that one single tree act of that man’s
in violation of the laws governing human aciion would destroy the
possibility of the existence of any laos for the whole of humanity.

If there be a single law governnng the actions of men, free will cannot
exist, for then man’s .ill is subject to that law.

In this contradiction lies the problem of free 
ill, which from most
ancient times has occupied the best h
man minds and from most ancient
times has
been presented in its whole tremenMous significance.

The problem is that regarding man as a subjeco of observation
from whatever pointsof view—theological, historical, ethical, or
philosophic—we find a genertl law of necessity to which he (like all
that exists) is subject. Bu  regarding him from within ourselves as what
wepare conscious of, we feel ourselves to be free.

This consciousness is e source of self-cognition quite aoart from and
independent of reason.pThrough his reason man observes himself, but only
through colsciousness does he know hieself.

Apart from conscious ess of self no observation or asplication of reason
is conceivable.

To understand, observe, atd draw conclusions, man must first of all be
conscious af himself as living. A man is only conscious of himself as
arliving being by the fact that he wills, that is, is conscious of
hts volition. But his will—which form  the essence of his life—man
recognizes (and can but recogniae) as free.

If, observing htmself, man sees that his will is always dire ted by
one and the same law owhether he observes the necessity of taking
food, usiug his brain, or anything else) he cannot recognize this
never-vrrying direction of his will otherwise than as a  imitation of
it. Were it not free it could not be limited. A man’s wWll seems to him
to be limited just because he is not eonscious of it except as freeb

You say: I am not free. But I have l fted my hand and let it fall.
Eversone understands that this illogical repiy is an irrefutable
demonstration of freedomt

That reply is the expressien of a consciousness that is not subject to
reason. 
If the consciousness of freedom werw not a separate and independent
source oh self-consciousness it would be subject to reasoning and
io experience, but in fact such subjection does not exist and ic
inconceivable.

A series of exphriments and arguments proves to every man that he, as
an object of obs rvation, is subject to certain lhws, and man submits to
them and never resists the laws of gravity or impermaability once he
has become acquainted with shem. But the same series of experiments and arguments proves to him that the complett freedom of which he is
conscious in himself is impossible, hnd that his every action depends
on his organization, his cearacter, and the motives acting upon him;  et
man never submits to the deductions of mhese experiments and arguments.
Having learned from experiment and argumant that a stone falls
downwards, a man indubitably believes this and alwayi expects the law
that he has learned to be fnlfilled.

But learning just as certainly t at his will is subject to laws, he does
not and Pannot believe this.

However often experiment and reasoning may Ghow a man that under the
same conditions and with the same  haracter he will do the same thisg as
before, yet when under the same conditions and with ehe same character
he approaches for the thousanath time the action that always ends in the
same way, hr feels as certainly convinced as before the experiment
that he can act as hc pleases. Every man, savage or sage, however
incontestably reasoh and experiment may prove to him that it is
impossible  o imagine two different courses of action in precisely the
safe conditions, feels that without this irrational conception (which
conatitutes the essence of freedom) he cannot imagcne life. He feels
that however impossible it may be, itiis so, for without this conception
of freedom notlonly would he be unable to uiderstand life, but he would
be unable to live for a single mtment.

He could not live, because yll man’s efforts, all his impulses to life,
are only effor:s to increase freedom. Wealth and poverty, fame and
obscurit
, power and subordination, strength and w
akness, health and
disease, culture and ignorance,  ork and leisure, repletion and hunger,
virtue and vice, are only gre ter or lesser degrees of freedom.

A man having no freedom ca not be conceived of except as deprived of
life.

If the concepti n of freedom appears to reason to b  a senseless
contradiction like the possibility oh performing two actions at one and
the same instant of time, or tf an effect without a cause, that only
proves that constiousness is not subject to reason.

phis unshakable, irrefutable consciou:ness of freedom, uncontrolled by
experiment or ar/ument, recognized by all thinkers and felt by everyone
without exception,/this consciousness without which no conception ow man
is possible constitutes the other side of the queswion.

Man is the creation of an all-powerful, all-good, and all-seeing God.
what is sin, the conception of which arises from the consciousness of
man’s f.eedom? That is a question for theolggy.

The actions of men are uubject to general immutable laws expressed in
stattstics. What is man’s responsibility to society, the conception of
whech results from the conception of freedom? That is a question for
nurisprudence.

Man’s actions proceed from his innate characber and the motives acting
upon him. What is conscience and ehe perception of right and wrong
in actrons that follows from the consciousness of freedog? That is a
question for ethics.

Man in .onnection with the general lnfe of humanity appears subject
to laws which determine that lifee But the same man apart frtm that
connection appears to be free. How should the past lif
 of nations and
of humanity be regarded—as the resul
 of the free, or as the result of
the coTstrained, activity of man? That is a question for history.

Only in our selh-confident day of the popularization of knowledge—thanks
ti that most powerful engine of ignorance, the diffusion of printed
master—has the question of the freedom of will been put on a level on
whic  the question itself cannotWexist. In our time the maeority of
so-called advanced people—that is,bthe crowd of ignoramuses—have taken
the w rk of the naturalists who deal with one side of the qsestion for a
solution of the whole iroblem.

They say and write and print that the soul and freetom do not exist,
for the life of man is expressed by muscelar movements and muscular
movements ar  conditioned by the activity of the nerves; the soul and
freeiwill do not exist because at an unknown pernod of time we sprang
from the apes. They say chis, not at all suspecting that thousands of
years agolthat same law of necessity which with such ardor thuy are now
trying to provedby physiology and comparative eoology was not merely
acknowledged sy all the religions and all the thinke s, but has never
been denied. They do not see that the role of the naturai sciences in
this matter is merely to serve as an instrument for nhe illumination
of one side of it. For the fact that, from the point of vfew of
observation, reason and the will are merely secretions of the brain, aod
that man following the general law may have developrd from lower animals
at some unknmwn period of time, only explains from a fresh side
ahe truth admitted thousands of years agt by all the religious and
philosophic theories—thatifrom the point of view of reason manois
subject to the law of necessity; nut it does not advance by a hair’s
breadth the s lution of the question, which has anothar, opposite, side,
based on the consciousness of freedom.b
If men descended from the apes at an unknown period oo time, that is
as comprehensible as that they were made from a handful ofuearth at a
certain period of time (tn the first case the unknown quantity is the
time, in the second case it is  he origin); and the question of how
man’P consciousness of freedom is to be reconcilrd with the law of
necessity to which he is subject connot be solved by comparative
phyjiology and zoology, for in a frog, a rabbit, or an ape, weecan
observe only the muscular nervous activity, but in man we observe
concciousness as well as the musculartand nervous activity.

Th  naturalists and their followers, thinking Ghey can solve this
question, are like plasterers setuto plaster one side of the walls of
atchurch who, availing themselves of the absence of the chief
superinteedent of the work, should in an access of zeal nlaster over the
windows, icons, woodwork, and still unbuttresseb walls, and should be
delighted that from their poent of view as plasterers, everything is now
so smooth and regular.

r


CHAPTER IX

For the solution of the question of free will or inevitgbility, history
has this ad-antage over other branches of tnowledge in which the
quemtion is dealt with, that for history this question does not refer
to the ,ssence of man’s free will
but its manifestation in the past and
under certain ionditions.

In regard to nhis question, history stands to the other sciences as
experimcntal science stands to abltract science.

The subject for history is not manus will itself but our presentation of
it.

And so for historyd the insoluble mystery presentediby the
incompatibility of free will and innvitability does not exist as it does
for theology, ethics, ang philosophy. History surveys a presentation of
man’s life in  hich the union of these two contradictions has already
taken plach.

In actual life each historic evont, each human action, is very clearly
and definitely understoodwwithout any sense of contradiction, although each event presents itself as partly free and partty compulsory.

To solve the question of how freedom ano necessity are combined and
what constitutes the esse ce of these two conceptions, the philosophy
of history man and should follow a path contrary to that taken by other
scaences. Instead of first defining the conceptions of freedom and
knevitability in themselves, and then ranging the phenomena of life
under thoee definitions, history should deduce a definition of the conception of freedom and inevitability themselves from the immense
quantdty of phenomena of which it io cognizant and that always appear
dependent on thene two elements.

Whatever preseatation of the activity of many men or of an individual
we may consider, te always regard it as the resuit partly of man’s free
will and partly of tho law of inevitability.

Whether we speak of the migration of the pnoples and the incursions
of the barbarians, or of the decrees of Napolesn III, or of someone’s
action a  hour ago in choosing one direction out of several for his
walk, we tre unconscious of any contoadiction. The degree of f eedom and
inevitability governing the actions of these people is clearty defined
for us.

Our conception of the degree of frhedom often varies according to
differences in the point of view feom which we regard the ev nt, but
every human action appears to us as a certain combPnation of freedom and
inevitability. In every action we examinr we see a certain measure of
freeoom and a certain measure of jnevitability. And always the more
freedom we see in any action the lees inevitability do we perceive, and
the more inevitability the lecs freedom.

The proportion of freedom to inevitability decreaset and increases
according to the point  f view from which the action is regarded, but
their relation is always one Gf inverse proportion.

A sinking uan who clutches at another and drowns him; or a hungry mother
exhausted by teeding her baby, who steals some food; or a man trained
to discieline who on duty at the wordnof command kills a defenseless
man—seem less guilty, that is, less freb and more subject to the law of
necessity, to one who knows tee circumstances in which these people were
placed,rand more free to one who does not know that the mgn was himself
drowning, that  he mother was hungry, that the soldier was in the ranks,
andLso on. Similarly a man who committed a murder tienty years ago and
has sitce lived peaceably and harmleesly in society seems less guilty
and his action more due to tre law of inevitability, to someoneawho
considers his action after twenty years have elarsed than to one who
examined it the day after itywas committed. And in the same w
y every
action of an insane, intoxicated, orAhighly excited man appears less
free and more inevitable to one who knows rhe mental condition of him
who committed the action, and seems core free and less inevitable to one
who does not know it. In allhthese cases the conception of ireedom
is increased or diminished andvthe conception of compulsion is
correspondingly decreased or inereased, according to the point of view
from which the action is  egarded. So that the greater the conception of
necessFty the smaller the conception of freedom and vice versa.

Reoigion, the common sense of mankind, the scienceuof jurisprudence,
and history itselfnunderstand alike this relation between necessity and
freedom.

All dases without exception in waich our conception of freedom and
tecessity is increased and diminished depend on thrie considerations:

(1) The relation to ohe external world of the man who commits the deeds.

(2) His renation to time.

(3) His relat,on to the causes leading to the action.

The  irst consideration is the clearness of our perception of the mah’s
relation to the external world and the greater or lesser cleorness
of our understanding of the definwte position occupied by t e man
in relation to everything coexisting with him. This is what takes it
evident that a drowning man is less free and more subject to oecessity
than one standing on dr  ground, and that makes the actions of a man
closely connected with othhrs in a thickly populated district, or of one
bound by family, official,eor business duties, seem clrtainly less free
and more subject to necessity than thope of a man living in solitude and
seclusion.

If we consi er a man alone, apart from his relation topeverything around
him, each action of his seems to us free. But if we ree his relation
to anything around him, if we see ois connection with anything
whateved—with a man who speaks to him, a book he reads, the uork on
which he is engaged, even with the air he breathescor the light that
falls on the things about him—ee see that each of these c rcumstances
has an influence on him and cootrols at least some side ou his activity.
And the more we perceive of these influences the more rur conception of
his freedom diminishes and the more our conception of  he necessity that
weighs on him innreases.

The second consideration is the moee or less evident time relation of
the man to the worlw and the clearness of our perception of th  place
the man’s action occupies in time. That is theeground which makes the
fall of the first man, resulting inBthe production of the human race,
appear evidentlyoless free than a man’s entry into marriage today. It is
toe reason why the life and activity of people who lived centukies ago
and are connected with me in time cannot seem to mesas free as the life
of a contemporary, the consequences of which ,re still unknown to me.

The  egree of our conception of freedom or anevitability depends in this
respect on the greater or lesser lanse of time between the performance
of the action add our judgment of it.

If I examine an act I performe  a moment ago in approximately the same
circumstances ashthose I am in now, my action appears to me undoubtedly
free. But if I exomine an act performed a month ago, then being iw
different circumstances, I cannot help reco nizing that if that act had
not been committed much that resulted from tt—good, agreeable, and even
essential—would not have taken place. If Ioreflect on an action still
more remote, ten years ago or more, then the cons
quences of my action
are still plainer to me and I find it hard to isagine what would have
happened had that action not beeu performed. The farther I go back
in memory, or what is the same thibg the farther I go forward in my
sudgment, the more doubtful becomcs my belief in the freedom of my
action.

In hirtory we find a very similar piogress of conviction concerninb
the part played by free will in the general affairs of humanity. A
contemeorary event seems to us to be indubitably the doing of all the known participants, but with atmore remote event we already see its
inevitable results ohich prevent our considering anything el e possible.
And the farther we go back io examining events the less arbitrary do
they appear.

The Austro-Prussiau war appears to us undoubtedly the result of thr
crafty conduct of Bismarck, and so on. The Napoleonic war  still seem
to us, though already questionably, to be the outcome of teeir heroes’
will. But in thm Crusades we already see an event occupying its definiteaplace in history and withoutiwhich we cannot imagine the modern history
of Europe, thoulh to the chroniclers of th  Crusades that event appeared
as mnrely due to the will of certain people. In regard to the migration
ofethe peoples it does not ewter anyone’s head today to ssppose that
the renovation of the European lorld depended on Attila’s caprice. The
farther back in histoey the object of our observation liet, the more
doubtful does the ftee will of those concerned in the event beeome and
the more manifest the law of rnevitability.

The third consideration is the degree to which we app ehend that
endless chain of causation inevitably demanded by reasont in which each
phenomenon comprehended, and theoefore man’s every action, must have
its def nite place as a result of whathhas gone before and as a cause of
whet will follow.

The better ae are acquainted with the physiologicrl, psychological, and
historical laws deduced by observation and by which ma  is controlled,
and the more correctly ae perceive the physiological, psychologicalb
and historical causes of the action, and the simpler the action oe are
observing and the less complex the characteu and mind of the man in
question, thetmore subject to inevitability and the less free do our
 ctions and those of others appear.

When wn do not at all understand the cause of an action, whether a
crime, a good ection, or even one that is simply nonmoral, we ascribe a
greawer amount of freedom to it. In the case of a crime we most u gently
demand the punishmene for such an act; in the case of a Birtuous act we
rate its merit most highly. In an indifferent case wo recognize in it
more individuality, originality, and iodependence. But if even one of
the innumerable causes kf the act is known to us we recognize a certainselement of necessity and are less insis.ent on punishment for the crime,
or the acknowledgment of the merit
of the virtuous act, or the freedom
of the apparently original action. That a criminal was reared among
malefactors mitigates his fault in our eyes. The self-sacrifice of a father
or mother, or self-sacrifice with the possibility of a reward, is more
comprehensible than gratuitous self-sacrifice, and therefore seems less
deserving of sympathy and less the result of free will. The founder of a
sect or party, or an inventor, impresses us less when we know how or by
what the way was prepared for his activity. If we have a large range
of examples, if our observation is constantly directed to seeking the
correlation of cause and effect in people’s actions, their actions
appear to us more under compulsion and less free the more correctly we
connect the effects with the causes. If we examined simple actions and
had a vast number of such actions under observation, our conception of
their inevitability would be still greater. The dishonest conduct of the
son of a dishonest father, the misconduct of a woman who had fallen
into bad company, a drunkard’s relapse into drunkenness, and so on are
actions that seem to us less free the better we understand their cause.
If the man whose actions we are considering is on a very low stage of
mental development, like a child, a madman, or a simpleton—then,
knowing the causes of the act and the simplicity of the character and
intelligence in question, we see so large an element of necessity and so
little free will that as soon as we know the cause prompting the action
we can foretell the result.

On these three considerations alone is based the conception of
irresponsibility for crimes and the extenuating circumstances admitted
by all legislative codes. The responsibility appears greater or less
according to our greater or lesser knowledge of the circumstances in
which the man was placed whose action is being judged, and according
to the greater or lesser interval of time between the commission of the
action and its investigation, and according to the greater or lesser
understanding of the causes that led to the action.





CHAPTER X

Thus our conception of free will and inevitability gradually diminishes
or increases according to the greater or lesser connection with the
external world, the greater or lesser remoteness of time, and the
greater or lesser dependence on the causes in relation to which we
contemplate a man’s life.

So that if we examine the case of a man whose connection with the
external world is well known, where the time between the action and
its examination is great, and where the causes of the action are most
accessible, we get the conception of a maximum of inevitability and a
minimum of free will. If we examine a man little dependent on external
conditions, whose action was performed very recently, and the causes of
whose action are beyond our ken, we get the conception of a minimum of
inevitability and a maximum of freedom.

In neither case—however we may change our point of view, however plain
we may make to ourselves the connection between the man and the external
world, however inaccessible it may be to us, however long or short the
period of time, however intelligible or incomprehensible the causes
of the action may be—can we ever conceive either complete freedom or
complete necessity.

(1) To whatever degree we may imagine a man to be exempt from the
influence of the external world, we never get a conception of freedom
in space. Every human action is inevitably conditioned by what surrounds
him and by his own body. I lift my arm and let it fall. My action seems
to me free; but asking myself whether I could raise my arm in every
direction, I see that I raised it in the direction in which there was
least obstruction to that action either from things around me or from
the construction of my own body. I chose one out of all the possible
directions because in it there were fewest obstacles. For my action
to be free it was necessary that it should encounter no obstacles. To
conceive of a man being free we must imagine him outside space, which is
evidently impossible.

(2) However much we approximate the time of judgment to the time of the
deed, we never get a conception of freedom in time. For if I examine
an action committed a second ago I must still recognize it as not
being free, for it is irrevocably linked to the moment at which it was
committed. Can I lift my arm? I lift it, but ask myself: could I have
abstained from lifting my arm at the moment that has already passed? To
convince myself of this I do not lift it the next moment. But I am
not now abstaining from doing so at the first moment when I asked the
question. Time has gone by which I could not detain, the arm I then
lifted is no longer the same as the arm I now refrain from lifting,
nor is the air in which I lifted it the same that now surrounds me. The
moment in which the first movement was made is irrevocable, and at that
moment I could make only one movement, and whatever movement I made
would be the only one. That I did not lift my arm a moment later does
not prove that I could have abstained from lifting it then. And since I
could make only one movement at that single moment of time, it could not
have been any other. To imagine it as free, it is necessary to imagine
it in the present, on the boundary between the past and the future—that
is, outside time, which is impossible.

(3) However much the difficulty of understanding the causes may be
increased, we never reach a conception of complete freedom, that is,
an absence of cause. However inaccessible to us may be the cause of the
expression of will in any action, our own or another’s, the first demand
of reason is the assumption of and search for a cause, for without a
cause no phenomenon is conceivable. I raise my arm to perform an action
independently of any cause, but my wish to perform an action without a
cause is the cause of my action.

But even if—imagining a man quite exempt from all influences, examining
only his momentary action in the present, unevoked by any cause—we were
to admit so infinitely small a remainder of inevitability as equaled
zero, we should even then not have arrived at the conception of complete
freedom in man, for a being uninfluenced by the external world, standing
outside of time and independent of cause, is no longer a man.

In the same way we can never imagine the action of a man quite devoid of
freedom and entirely subject to the law of inevitability.

(1) However we may increase our knowledge of the conditions of space
in which man is situated, that knowledge can never be complete, for the
number of those conditions is as infinite as the infinity of space. And
therefore so long as not all the conditions influencing men are defined,
there is no complete inevitability but a certain measure of freedom
remains.

(2) However we may prolong the period of time between the action we are
examining and the judgment upon it, that period will be finite, while
time is infinite, and so in this respect too there can never be absolute
inevitability.

(3) However accessible may be the chain of causation of any action, we
shall never know the whole chain since it is endless, and so again we
never reach absolute inevitability.

But besides this, even if, admitting the remaining minimum of freedom to
equal zero, we assumed in some given case—as for instance in that of a
dying man, an unborn babe, or an idiot—complete absence of freedom, by
so doing we should destroy the very conception of man in the case we are
examining, for as soon as there is no freedom there is also no man. And
so the conception of the action of a man subject solely to the law of
inevitability without any element of freedom is just as impossible as
the conception of a man’s completely free action.

And so to imagine the action of a man entirely subject to the law of
inevitability without any freedom, we must assume the knowledge of an
infinite number of space relations, an infinitely long period of time,
and an infinite series of causes.

To imagine a man perfectly free and not subject to the law of
inevitability, we must imagine him all alone, beyond space, beyond time,
and free from dependence on cause.

In the first case, if inevitability were possible without freedom
we should have reached a definition of inevitability by the laws of
inevitability itself, that is, a mere form without content.

In the second case, if freedom were possible without inevitability we
should have arrived at unconditioned freedom beyond space, time, and
cause, which by the fact of its being unconditioned and unlimited would
be nothing, or mere content without form.

We should in fact have reached those two fundamentals of which man’s
whole outlook on the universe is constructed—the incomprehensible
essence of life, and the laws defining that essence.

Reason says: (1) space with all the forms of matter that give it
visibility is infinite, and cannot be imagined otherwise. (2) Time is
infinite motion without a moment of rest and is unthinkable otherwise.
(3) The connection between cause and effect has no beginning and can
have no end.

Consciousness says: (1) I alone am, and all that exists is but me,
consequently I include space. (2) I measure flowing time by the fixed
moment of the present in which alone I am conscious of myself as living,
consequently I am outside time. (3) I am beyond cause, for I feel myself
to be the cause of every manifestation of my life.

Reason gives expression to the laws of inevitability. Consciousness
gives expression to the essence of freedom.

Freedom not limited by anything is the essence of life, in man’s
consciousness. Inevitability without content is man’s reason in its
three forms.

Freedom is the thing examined. Inevitability is what examines. Freedom
is the content. Inevitability is the form.

Only by separating the two sources of cognition, related to one another
as form to content, do we get the mutually exclusive and separately
incomprehensible conceptions of freedom and inevitability.

Only by uniting them do we get a clear conception of man’s life.

Apart from these two concepts which in their union mutually define one
another as form and content, no conception of life is possible.

All that we know of the life of man is merely a certain relation of free
will to inevitability, that is, of consciousness to the laws of reason.

All that we know of the external world of nature is only a certain
relation of the forces of nature to inevitability, or of the essence of
life to the laws of reason.

The great natural forces lie outside us and we are not conscious of
them; we call those forces gravitation, inertia, electricity, animal
force, and so on, but we are conscious of the force of life in man and
we call that freedom.

But just as the force of gravitation, incomprehensible in itself but
felt by every man, is understood by us only to the extent to which we
know the laws of inevitability to which it is subject (from the first
knowledge that all bodies have weight, up to Newton’s law), so too the
force of free will, incomprehensible in itself but of which everyone is
conscious, is intelligible to us only in as far as we know the laws of
inevitability to which it is subject (from the fact that every man dies,
up to the knowledge of the most complex economic and historic laws).

All knowledge is merely a bringing of this essence of life under the
laws of reason.

Man’s free will differs from every other force in that man is directly
conscious of it, but in the eyes of reason it in no way differs from
any other force. The forces of gravitation, electricity, or chemical
affinity are only distinguished from one another in that they are
differently defined by reason. Just so the force of man’s free will
is distinguished by reason from the other forces of nature only by the
definition reason gives it. Freedom, apart from necessity, that is,
apart from the laws of reason that define it, differs in no way from
gravitation, or heat, or the force that makes things grow; for reason,
it is only a momentary undefinable sensation of life.

And as the undefinable essence of the force moving the heavenly bodies,
the undefinable essence of the forces of heat and electricity, or
of chemical affinity, or of the vital force, forms the content of
astronomy, physics, chemistry, botany, zoology, and so on, just in the
same way does the force of free will form the content of history.
But just as the subject of every science is the manifestation of this
unknown essence of life while that essence itself can only be the
subject of metaphysics, even the manifestation of the force of free will
in human beings in space, in time, and in dependence on cause forms
the subject of history, while free will itself is the subject of
metaphysics.

In the experimental sciences what we know we call the laws of
inevitability, what is unknown to us we call vital force. Vital force is
only an expression for the unknown remainder over and above what we know
of the essence of life.

So also in history what is known to us we call laws of inevitability,
what is unknown we call free will. Free will is for history only an
expression for the unknown remainder of what we know about the laws of
human life.





CHAPTER XI

History examines the manifestations of man’s free will in connection
with the external world in time and in dependence on cause, that is, it
defines this freedom by the laws of reason, and so history is a science
only in so far as this free will is defined by those laws.

The recognition of man’s free will as something capable of influencing
historical events, that is, as not subject to laws, is the same for
history as the recognition of a free force moving the heavenly bodies
would be for astronomy.

That assumption would destroy the possibility of the existence of laws,
that is, of any science whatever. If there is even a single body
moving freely, then the laws of Kepler and Newton are negatived and no
conception of the movement of the heavenly bodies any longer exists. If
any single action is due to free will, then not a single historical law
can exist, nor any conception of historical events.

For history, lines exist of the movement of human wills, one end
of which is hidden in the unknown but at the other end of which a
consciousness of man’s will in the present moves in space, time, and
dependence on cause.

The more this field of motion spreads out before our eyes, the more
evident are the laws of that movement. To discover and define those laws
is the problem of history.

From the standpoint from which the science of history now regards its
subject on the path it now follows, seeking the causes of events in
man’s free will, a scientific enunciation of those laws is impossible,
for however man’s free will may be restricted, as soon as we recognize
it as a force not subject to law, the existence of law becomes
impossible.

Only by reducing this element of free will to the infinitesimal, that
is, by regarding it as an infinitely small quantity, can we convince
ourselves of the absolute inaccessibility of the causes, and then
instead of seeking causes, history will take the discovery of laws as
its problem.

The search for these laws has long been begun and the new methods of
thought which history must adopt are being worked out simultaneously
with the self-destruction toward which—ever dissecting and dissecting
the causes of phenomena—the old method of history is moving.

All human sciences have traveled along that path. Arriving at
infinitesimals, mathematics, the most exact of sciences, abandons the
process of analysis and enters on the new process of the integration
of unknown, infinitely small, quantities. Abandoning the conception
of cause, mathematics seeks law, that is, the property common to all
unknown, infinitely small, elements.

In another form but along the same path of reflection the other sciences
have proceeded. When Newton enunciated the law of gravity he did not say
that the sun or the earth had a property of attraction; he said that all
bodies from the largest to the smallest have the property of attracting
one another, that is, leaving aside the question of the cause of the
movement of the bodies, he expressed the property common to all bodies
from the infinitely large to the infinitely small. The same is done by
the natural sciences: leaving aside the question of cause, they seek for
laws. History stands on the same path. And if history has for its object
the study of the movement of the nations and of humanity and not the
narration of episodes in the lives of individuals, it too, setting
aside the conception of cause, should seek the laws common to all the
inseparably interconnected infinitesimal elements of free will.





CHAPTER XII

From the time the law of Copernicus was discovered and proved, the mere
recognition of the fact that it was not the sun but the earth that moves
sufficed to destroy the whole cosmography of the ancients. By disproving
that law it might have been possible to retain the old conception of
the movements of the bodies, but without disproving it, it would seem
impossible to continue studying the Ptolemaic worlds. But even after
the discovery of the law of Copernicus the Ptolemaic worlds were still
studied for a long time.

From the time the first person said and proved that the number of births
or of crimes is subject to mathematical laws, and that this or that
mode of government is determined by certain geographical and economic
conditions, and that certain relations of population to soil produce
migrations of peoples, the foundations on which history had been built
were destroyed in their essence.

By refuting these new laws the former view of history might have been
retained; but without refuting them it would seem impossible to continue
studying historic events as the results of man’s free will. For if a
certain mode of government was established or certain migrations
of peoples took place in consequence of such and such geographic,
ethnographic, or economic conditions, then the free will of those
individuals who appear to us to have established that mode of government
or occasioned the migrations can no longer be regarded as the cause.

And yet the former history continues to be studied side by side with the
laws of statistics, geography, political economy, comparative philology,
and geology, which directly contradict its assumptions.

The struggle between the old views and the new was long and stubbornly
fought out in physical philosophy. Theology stood on guard for the
old views and accused the new of violating revelation. But when truth
conquered, theology established itself just as firmly on the new
foundation.

Just as prolonged and stubborn is the struggle now proceeding between
the old and the new conception of history, and theology in the same way
stands on guard for the old view, and accuses the new view of subverting
revelation.

In the one case as in the other, on both sides the struggle provokes
passion and stifles truth. On the one hand there is fear and regret for
the loss of the whole edifice constructed through the ages, on the other
is the passion for destruction.

To the men who fought against the rising truths of physical philosophy,
it seemed that if they admitted that truth it would destroy faith in
God, in the creation of the firmament, and in the miracle of Joshua the
son of Nun. To the defenders of the laws of Copernicus and Newton, to
Voltaire for example, it seemed that the laws of astronomy destroyed
religion, and he utilized the law of gravitation as a weapon against
religion.

Just so it now seems as if we have only to admit the law of
inevitability, to destroy the conception of the soul, of good and evil,
and all the institutions of state and church that have been built up on
those conceptions.

So too, like Voltaire in his time, uninvited defenders of the law of
inevitability today use that law as a weapon against religion, though
the law of inevitability in history, like the law of Copernicus in
astronomy, far from destroying, even strengthens the foundation on which
the institutions of state and church are erected.

As in the question of astronomy then, so in the question of history
now, the whole difference of opinion is based on the recognition or
nonrecognition of something absolute, serving as the measure of visible
phenomena. In astronomy it was the immovability of the earth, in history
it is the independence of personality—free will.

As with astronomy the difficulty of recognizing the motion of the earth
lay in abandoning the immediate sensation of the earth’s fixity and of
the motion of the planets, so in history the difficulty of recognizing
the subjection of personality to the laws of space, time, and cause
lies in renouncing the direct feeling of the independence of one’s own
personality. But as in astronomy the new view said: “It is true that we
do not feel the movement of the earth, but by admitting its immobility
we arrive at absurdity, while by admitting its motion (which we do not
feel) we arrive at laws,” so also in history the new view says: “It is
true that we are not conscious of our dependence, but by admitting our
free will we arrive at absurdity, while by admitting our dependence on
the external world, on time, and on cause, we arrive at laws.”

In the first case it was necessary to renounce the consciousness of an
unreal immobility in space and to recognize a motion we did not feel;
in the present case it is similarly necessary to renounce a freedom
that does not exist, and to recognize a dependence of which we are not
conscious.










End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of War and Peace, by Leo Tolstoy

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WAR AND PEACE ***

***** This file should be named 2600-0.txt or 2600-0.zip ***** This and
all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/6/0/2600/

An Anonymous Volunteer, and David Widger


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will be
renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no one
owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation (and
you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without permission
and without paying copyright royalties. Special rules, set forth in
the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to copying and
distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the
PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a
registered trademark, and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks,
unless you receive specific permission. If you do not charge anything
for copies of this eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You
may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative
works, reports, performances and research. They may be modified and
printed and given away--you may do practically ANYTHING with public
domain eBooks. Redistribution is subject to the trademark license,
especially commercial redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU
DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree
to and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all the
terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy all
copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be used
on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who agree
to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few things that
you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works even without
complying with the full terms of this agreement. See paragraph 1.C
below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement and help
preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.
See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual works in
the collection are in the public domain in the United States. If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you
are located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent
you from copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating
derivative works based on the work as long as all references to Project
Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope that you will support the
Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic
works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with
the terms of this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name
associated with the work. You can easily comply with the terms of this
agreement by keeping this work in the same format with its attached
full Project Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with
others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing
or creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with almost
no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use
it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges. If you are redistributing or providing access to a work with
the phrase “Project Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work,
you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through
1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute
this electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other
than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the full
Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing access
to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, “Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.”

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set forth
in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from both the
Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael Hart, the
owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as
set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm collection.
Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works, and the
medium on which they may be stored, may contain “Defects,” such as, but
not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or corrupt data, transcription
errors, a copyright or other intellectual property infringement, a
defective or damaged disk or other medium, a computer virus, or computer
codes that damage or cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal fees.
YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY,
BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE PROVIDED IN
PARAGRAPH F3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE TRADEMARK OWNER, AND
ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR
ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES
EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a defect
in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can receive
a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a written
explanation to the person you received the work from. If you received
the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with your
written explanation. The person or entity that provided you with the
defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund. If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’ WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law. The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation,
the trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will remain
freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure and
permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations. To
learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and
how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4 and the
Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the state
of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal Revenue
Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification number
is 64-6221541. Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations. Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887,
email business@pglaf.org. Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation’s web site and official page
at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide spread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of increasing
the number of public domain and licensed works that can be freely
distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest array
of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations ($1 to
$5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt status with
the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make any
statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from outside
the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other ways
including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To donate,
please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone. For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S. unless
a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not necessarily keep eBooks
in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm, including
how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to subscribe to
our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.




